{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf760
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 AIRLINES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM\
\
********1***********\
select profile_id , count(ticket_id) from air_ticket_info group by profile_id\
having count(ticket_id)>=all (select count(ticket_id) from air_ticket_info group by profile_id);\
\
**********2**********\
select p.profile_id, p.first_name, f.flight_id, departure_time as Actualdepart, f.arrival_time as ac_arrival, addtime(f.departure_time, '01:00:00') \
as del_depart, addtime(f.arrival_time, '01:00:00') as dl_arr\
from air_flight f join air_ticket_info t\
on t.flight_id=f.flight_id\
join air_passenger_profile p\
on p.profile_id= t.profile_id\
join air_flight_details d\
on d.flight_id=f.flight_id\
where f.from_location='CHN'\
and f.to_location='HYD';\
\
\
*********3*********\
select count(f.flight_id) as Flight_count\
from air_flight f\
where f.from_location='CHN'\
and f.departure_time between '06:00:00' and '18:00:00';\
\
***********4***************\
select flight_id, flight_departure_date, case\
when price<3000 then 'air passenger'\
when price between 3000 and 3999 then 'air bus'\
when price >=4000 then 'executive'\
end as flight_type\
from air_flight_details;\
\
\
*************5***********\
select f.flight_id, f.from_location, f.to_location, d.price\
from air_flight f\
join air_flight_details d\
on d.flight_id=f.flight_id\
where month(d.flight_departure_date)=4;\
\
*************6**********\
select * from air_flight\
where duration < '01:10:00';\
\
*****************7********\
select card_type, count(card_type) as card_type \
from air_credit_card_details group by card_type;\
\
\
************8*********\
\
\
\
********9************\
select profile_id from air_ticket_info\
group by profile_id\
having count(ticket_id)>= all(\
    select count(ticket_id) from air_ticket_info\
group by profile_id);\
\
\
\
**********10***********\
select distinct p.first_name, p.mobile_number, p.email_id\
from air_passenger_profile p\
join air_ticket_info t\
on t.profile_id=p.profile_id\
join air_flight f\
on f.flight_id = t.flight_id\
where f.from_location='HYD'\
and f.to_location='CHN';\
\
\
\
*************11************\
select p.profile_id,p.first_name, count(t.ticket_id)\
from air_passenger_profile p\
join air_ticket_info t\
on p.profile_id = t.profile_id\
where p.address like '%kochi%';\
\
\
********12************\
select d.flight_id, count(flight_departure_date) as number, f.airline_name,f.to_location\
from air_flight_details d join air_flight f\
on f.flight_id=d.flight_id\
where month(flight_departure_date)=05\
group by flight_id;\
\
\
*************13********\
\
\
select * from air_passenger_profile\
where profile_id in (\
select profile_id from air_ticket_info where flight_id=3148);\
\
**************14***********\
select flight_id, sum(price) as price_services from air_flight_details\
where flight_departure_date is not null\
group by flight_id\
order by price_services desc;\
\
\
*******************15**********\
\
select i.flight_id, count(i.ticket_id) , d.flight_departure_date from air_ticket_info i, air_flight_details d\
where i.flight_id=d.flight_id\
group by flight_id;\
\
\
\
****************16***************\
\
*not showing distinct records\
*\
*\
*\
select distinct p.profile_id, p.first_name, left(substring_index(substring_index(p.address,'-',-2),'-',1),3) as base_location,\
f.from_location as from_loc from air_passenger_profile p, air_ticket_info i, air_flight f\
where p.profile_id=i.profile_id\
and i.flight_id=f.flight_id\
and f.from_location not like left(substring_index(substring_index(p.address,'-',-2),'-',1),3);\
\
\
****************17********\
\
\
\
\
\
****************18********\
select from_location, count(flight_id) as no_of_flights from air_flight\
group by from_location;\
\
\
************19**********\
select flight_id, avg(price) from air_flight_details\
group by flight_id;\
\
\
\
************20***********\
\
select p.profile_id, p.first_name,p.address , f.airline_id from air_passenger_profile p,\
air_ticket_info i, air_flight f \
where p.profile_id= i.profile_id\
and i.flight_id=f.flight_id\
and f.from_location='chn'\
and f.to_location='hyd';\
\
\
\
**************21********\
select count(profile_id) as counted from air_ticket_info\
where flight_id in (select flight_id from air_flight where airline_name like 'abc');\
\
\
\
\
************23*********\
select case\
when price<4000 then 'less'\
when price<=4000 and price<6000 then 'medium'\
else 'expensive'\
-- when price>=60000 then 'expens'\
end as costing, count(flight_id) from air_flight_details\
group by costing;\
\
\
\
***********24**********\
select x.s*price from (select count(ticket_id) as s , flight_id from air_ticket_info group by flight_id)x \
inner join air_flight_details d\
on x.flight_id=d.flight_id;\
\
\
\
\
\
********25************\
\
\
\
\
**************26**********\
select case\
when hour(departure_time)>5 and hour(departure_time)<12 then 'morning'\
when hour(departure_time)>12 and hour(departure_time)<18 then 'afternoon'\
when hour(departure_time)>18 and hour(departure_time)<24 then 'night'\
-- when price>=60000 then 'expens'\
end as costing, count(flight_id) from air_flight\
group by costing;\
\
\
\
\
*****************27**************\
select flight_id, count(flight_departure_date) from  air_flight_details group by flight_id\
having count(flight_departure_date)<=all (\
select count(flight_departure_date) from air_flight_details group by flight_id);\
\
AIRLINES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 2\
\
1Q. Write a query to display profile id of passenger who booked minimum number of tickets.\
2Q. Write a query to intimate the passengers who are boarding Chennai to Hyderabad Flight on 6th May 2013 stating the delay of 1hr in the departure time. The Query should display the passenger\'eds profile_id, first_name,last_name, flight_id, flight_departure_date, actual departure time as "Actual_Departure_Time", actual arrival time as "Actual_Arrival_Time", delayed departure time as "Delayed_Departure_time", delayed arrival time as "Delayed_Arrival_Time" Hint: Distinct Profile ID should be displayed irrespective of multiple tickets booked by the same profile.\
3Q. Write a query to display number of flights between 6.00 AM and 6.00 PM from chennai. Hint Use FLIGHT_COUNT as alias name\
4Q. Write a query to display flight id,departure date,flight type of all flights. Flight type can be identified if ticket price is less than 3000 then 'AIR PASSENGER',ticket price between 3000 and less than 4000 'AIR BUS' and ticket price between 4000 and greater than 4000 then 'EXECUTIVE PASSENGER'. Hint use FLIGHT_TYPE as alias name.\
5Q. Write a query to display flight id,from location, to location and price of flights whose departure is in the month of aprazil.\
6Q. Write a query to display the Flight_Id, Flight_Departure_Date, From_Location,To_Location and Duration which has duration of travel less than 1 Hour, 10 Minutes.\
7Q. Write a query to display the credit card type and no of credit cards used on the same type. Hint: Use CARD_COUNT AS Alias name for no of cards.\
9Q. Write a query to display profile id of passenger who booked maximum number of tickets\
10Q. Write a query to display unique passenger profile id,first name,mobile number and email address of passengers who booked ticket to travel from HYDERABAD to CHENNAI.\
11Q. Write a query to find the number of tickets as \'ecNo_of_Tickets\'ee (alias name) booked by Kochi Customers. The Query should display the Profile_Id, First_Name, Base_Location and number of tickets booked.\
Hint: Use String functions to get the base location of customer from their Address and give alias name as \'ecBase_Location\'ee\
12 Q. Write a query to display the flight_id, from_location, to_location, number of Services as \'ecNo_of_Services\'ee (alias name) offered in the month of May. Hint:The number of services can be calculated from the number of scheduled departure dates of the flight\
13Q. Write a query to display unique profile id,first name , email address and contact number of passengers who traveled on flight with id 3148.\
14Q. Write a query to find the no of services offered by each flight and the total price of the services. The Query should display flight_id, number of services as \'ecNo_of_Services\'ee (alias name)&nbsp;and the cost as \'ecTotal_Price\'ee (alias name). Order the result by Highest Total Price Hint:The number of services can be calculated from the number of scheduled departure dates of the flight\
15Q. Write a query to find the number of passengers traveled in each flight in each scheduled date. The Query should display flight_id, flight_departure_date and the number of passengers as\
\'ecNo_of_Passengers\'ee (alias name). Hint: The Number of passengers inclusive of all the tickets booked with single profile id.\
16Q. Write a query to find the customer who has booked the ticket with the From_Location different from their Base_Location. The Query should display flight_id,profile_id,customer_name,base_location and from_location\
Hint: Use string functions to get the city value as Base_location from customer address. Use alias name as \'ecBase_Location\'ee.Combine First Name and Last Name with a comma in between and give alias name as \'ecCustomer_Name\'ee. Use distinct to display unique records\
18 Q. Write a query to find the number of flights flying from each location. The Query should display the starting location as "Location", number of flights to other locations as \'ecNo_of_Flights\'ee. Hint: Get the distinct starting location from the From_Location &amp; To_Location.\
19Q. Write a query to find the average cost of the tickets in each flight on all scheduled dates. The query should display flight_id, from_location, to_location and Average price as \'ecPrice\'ee (alias name).\
20Q. Write a query to find the customers who have booked tickets from Chennai to Hyderabad. The query should display profile_id, customer_name (combine first_name &amp; last_name with comma in b/w), address of the customer.&nbsp; <div> <br> </div> <div> Hint: Query should fetch unique customers irrespective of multiple tickets booked. Use " <span style="font-size: 10pt;">customer_name" as alias name for displaying&nbsp;</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">customer_name.</span> </div>\
21Q. Write a query to find the customers who has booked maximum number of tickets in ABC Airlines. The Query should display profile_id, customer's first_name, Address and Number of tickets booked as \'ecNo_of_Tickets\'ee (alias name).\
23Q. Write a query to display the number of employees who get salary less than 50000, number of employees who get salary greater than 50000 and less than or equal to 100000 and number of employees who get greater than 100000.\
Hint: Use "less" as alias name for displaying the number of employees who get salary less than 50000, "moderate" as alias name for displaying number of employees who get salary greater than 50000 and less than or equal to 100000 and "high" as alias name for displaying the number of employees who get greater than 100000.\
24Q. Write a query to find the number of passengers traveled on each flight on each scheduled date and total price of the tickets booked. The Query should display flight_id, from_location, to_location,flight_departure_date,number of passengers as \'ecNo_of_Passengers\'ee&nbsp;(alias name), Total Price of the tickets booked as \'ecTotal_Price\'ee&nbsp;(alias name). Hint: The Number of passengers inclusive of all the tickets booked with single profile id. "Total_Price" should be calculated as (No_of_Passengers * price of single ticket\
25Q. Write a query to find the customers who are travelling together on the same flight. The Query should display profile_id, first_name,last_name,flight_id, flight_departure_date ,from_location and to_location. The result should be sorted based on the flight id and flight departure date. Hint: Distinct profile id should be displayed irrespective of multiple tickets booked.Display the result only if more than one customers travelling on the same flight. For Eg: If the profile ID P1 &amp; P2 booked the ticket on flight F1 on May 3rd and 10th respectively then do not display P1 &amp; P2. If both P1 &amp; P2 booked the ticket on flight F1 on May 12th (same day) then display P1 &amp; P2 as they will travel together\
26Q. Write a query to find the flights available in Morning, After Noon, Evening &amp; Night. The Query should display the Flight_Id, From_Location, To_Location , Departure_Time, time of service as "Time_of_Service". Time of Service should be calculated as: From 05:00:01 Hrs to 12:00:00 Hrs - Morning, 12:00:01 to 18:00:00 Hrs -Afternoon, 18:00:01 to 24:00:00 - Evening and 00:00:01 to 05:00:00 \'f1 Night.\
27Q. Write a query to find the flight which has least number of services in the month of May. The Query should fetch flight_id, from_location, to_location, least number of Services as \'ecNo_of_Services\'ee Hint: Number of services offered can be calculated from the number of scheduled departure dates of a flight\
\
\
AIRLINES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 3\
\
1). Write a query to display profile id of passenger who booked minimum number of tickets.\
\
 select a.profile_id \
from  air_ticket_info t\
group by t.profile_id\
 having count(t.ticket_id) <= all(select count(a.ticket_id) from air_ticket_info t\
group by t.profile_id);\
\
\
2)Write a query to intimate the passengers who are boarding Chennai to Hyderabad Flight on 6th May 2013 stating the delay of 1hr in the departure time.\
 The Query should display the passenger\'eds profile_id, first_name,last_name, flight_id, flight_departure_date,  actual departure time as "Actual_Departure_Time", \
actual arrival time as "Actual_Arrival_Time", delayed departure time as "Delayed_Departure_time", delayed arrival time as "Delayed_Arrival_Time" Hint: Distinct  \
Profile ID should be displayed irrespective of multiple tickets booked by the same profile.\
\
select distinct p.profile_id,p.first_name,p.last_name,f.flight_id,d.flight_departure_date,f.departure_time as actual_daparture_time,\
f.arrival_time as actual_arrival_time,addtime(f.arrival_time,'01:00:00') as delayed_arrival_time,addtime(f.departure_time,'01:00:00') AS DELAYED_DEPARTURE_TIME\
from air_passenger_profile p,air_flight f,air_ticket_info d where d.flight_id=f.flight_id\
and p.profile_id=d.profile_id\
and f.from_location='CHN' and f.to_location='DEL'\
and date_format(d.flight_departure_date,'%Y-%m-%d')='2014-02-07';\
\
 \
\
3)Write a query to display number of flights between 6.00 AM and 6.00 PM from chennai. Hint Use FLIGHT_COUNT as alias name\
\
select count(f.flight_id)as FLIGHT_COUNT from air_flight f where f.from_location='CHN'\
and f.arrival_time>='06:00:00' and f.departure_time<='18:00:00';\
\
\
4). Write a query to display flight id,departure date,flight type of all flights. Flight type can be identified if ticket price is less than 3000 then\
'AIR PASSENGER',ticket price between 3000 and less than 4000 'AIR BUS' and ticket price between 4000 and greater than 4000 then 'EXECUTIVE PASSENGER'. Hint use \
FLIGHT_TYPE as alias name.\
\
select t.flight_id,t.flight_departure_date,\
case \
when t.price<3000 then 'AIR PASSENGER'\
when t.price<4000 then 'AIR BUS'\
when t.price>=4000 then 'EXECUTIVE PASSENGER'\
end as flight_type\
from air_flight_details t;\
\
5)Write a query to display flight id,from location, to location and price of flights whose departure is in the month of april\
	\
\
select f.flight_id,f.from_location,f.to_location,d.price from air_flight f,air_flight_details d\
where f.flight_id=d.flight_id\
and month(d.flight_departure_date)=4;;\
\
6)Write a query to display the Flight_Id, Flight_Departure_Date, From_Location,To_Location and Duration which has duration of travel less than 1 Hour, 10 Minutes\
 \
select distinct f.flight_id,f.flight_departure_date,d.from_location,d.to_location from\
air_flight_details f,air_flight d \
where d.flight_id=f.flight_id\
and d.duration<'01:10:00'\
\
7)Write a query to display the credit card type and no of credit cards used on the same type. Hint: Use CARD_COUNT AS Alias name for no of cards.\
\
select c.card_type,count(c.card_number) as card_count from air_credit_card_details c\
group by c.card_type;\
\
\
9)Write a query to display profile id of passenger who booked maximum number of tickets\
\
select profile_id from air_ticket_info \
group by profile_id\
having count(ticket_id)>=all(select count(ticket_id) from air_ticket_info\
group by profile_id);\
\
\
10). Write a query to display unique passenger profile id,first name,mobile number and email address of passengers who booked ticket to travel from HYDERABAD to\
 CHENNAI.\
\
select distinct p.profile_id,p.first_name,p.mobile_number,p.email_id from air_passenger_profile p,air_ticket_info i,air_flight f\
where p.profile_id=i.profile_id\
and f.flight_id=i.flight_id\
and f.from_location='HYD' and f.to_location='CHN';\
\
11)Write a query to find the number of tickets as \'ecNo_of_Tickets\'ee (alias name) booked by Kochi Customers. The Query should display the Profile_Id, First_Name,\
Base_Location and number of tickets booked.\
Hint: Use String functions to get the base location of customer from their Address and give alias name as \'ecBase_Location\'ee\
\
select p.profile_id,p.first_name, substring_index(substring_index(p.address,'-',2),'-',-1)as base_location,\
count(i.ticket_id) as no_of_tickets\
from air_passenger_profile p,air_ticket_info i\
WHERE p.profile_id=i.profile_id\
and substring_index(substring_index(p.address,'-',-2),'-',1)='kochi';\
\
12).Write a query to display the flight_id, from_location, to_location, number of Services as \'ecNo_of_Services\'ee (alias name) offered in the month of May.\
Hint:The number of services can be calculated from the number of scheduled departure dates of the flight\
\
select f.flight_id,f.from_location,f.to_location,count(i.flight_departure_date) as no_of_services\
from air_flight f,air_ticket_info i\
where f.flight_id=i.flight_id\
and month(i.flight_departure_date)=5\
group by f.airline_name;\
\
13)Write a query to display unique profile id,first name , email address and contact number of passengers who traveled on flight with id 3148.\
\
select distinct p.profile_id,p.first_name,p.email_id,p.mobile_number\
from air_passenger_profile p,air_ticket_info i\
where i.flight_id=3148;\
\
14)Write a query to find the no of services offered by each flight and the total price of the services. The Query should display flight_id, number of services as\
\'ecNo_of_Services\'ee (alias name)&nbsp;and the cost as \'ecTotal_Price\'ee (alias name). Order the result by Highest Total Price Hint:The number of services can be calculated\
from the number of scheduled departure dates of the flight\
\
select f.flight_id,count(f.airline_name)as no_of_services,sum(d.price) as total_price\
from air_flight f,air_flight_details d\
where d.flight_id=f.flight_id\
group by f.airline_name;\
\
15)Write a query to find the number of passengers traveled in each flight in each scheduled date. The Query should display flight_id, flight_departure_date and\
 the number of passengers as \'ecNo_of_Passengers\'ee (alias name).\
 Hint: The Number of passengers inclusive of all the tickets booked with single profile id.\
\
select flight_id,flight_departure_date,count(ticket_id) as no_of_passengers\
from air_ticket_info\
group by flight_id,flight_departure_date;\
\
16)Write a query to find the customer who has booked the ticket with the From_Location different from their Base_Location. The Query should display flight_id,\
profile_id,customer_name,base_location and from_location\
Hint: Use string functions to get the  city value as Base_location from customer address. Use alias name as \'ecBase_Location\'ee.Combine First Name and Last Name\
with a comma in between and give alias name as \'ecCustomer_Name\'ee. Use distinct to display unique records\
\
select distinct f.flight_id,p.profile_id,concat(p.first_name,',',p.last_name) as customer_name\
,substring_index(substring_index(p.address,'-',2),'-',1) as base_location,f.from_location\
from air_passenger_profile p,air_ticket_info i,air_flight f\
where p.profile_id=i.profile_id\
 and i.flight_id=f.flight_id\
 and substring_index(substring_index(p.address,'-',2),'-',1)!=f.from_location ;\
\
18). Write a query to find the number of flights flying from each location. The Query should display the starting location as "Location", number of flights to other locations as \'ecNo_of_Flights\'ee.\
 Hint: Get the distinct starting location from the From_Location &amp; To_Location.\
\
select distinct from_location as Location,count(flight_id) as no_of_flights\
from air_flight\
group by from_location;\
\
\
19)Write a query to find the average cost of the tickets in each flight on all scheduled dates. The query should display flight_id, from_location, to_location and \
Average price as \'ecPrice\'ee (alias name).\
\
select f.flight_id,f.from_location,f.to_location,avg(d.price) as price\
from air_flight f,air_flight_details d\
where d.flight_id=f.flight_id\
group by f.flight_id;\
\
\
20)Write a query to find the customers who have booked tickets from Chennai to Hyderabad. The query should display profile_id, customer_name \
(combine first_name &amp; last_name with comma in b/w), address of the customer.&nbsp; <div>  <br> </div> <div>  Hint: Query should fetch unique customers \
irrespective of multiple tickets booked. Use "  <span style="font-size: 10pt;">customer_name" as alias name for displaying&nbsp;</span>  <span style="font-size:\
 10pt;">customer_name.</span> </div>\
\
select distinct p.profile_id,concat(p.first_name,',',p.last_name)as customer_name,p.address\
from air_flight f,air_passenger_profile p,air_ticket_info i\
where i.flight_id=f.flight_id\
and p.profile_id=i.profile_id\
and f.from_location='CHN'\
and f.to_location='HYD';\
\
21). Write a query to find the customers who has booked maximum number of tickets in ABC Airlines. The Query should display profile_id, customer's first_name, \
Address and Number of tickets booked as \'ecNo_of_Tickets\'ee (alias name).\
\
select p.profile_id,p.first_name,p.address,count(i.ticket_id) as no_of_tickets\
from air_flight f,air_ticket_info i,air_passenger_profile p\
where i.flight_id=f.flight_id\
and p.profile_id=i.profile_id\
and f.airline_name='go air'\
group by p.profile_id\
having count(i.ticket_id)>=all(select count(i.ticket_id) from air_flight f,air_ticket_info i,air_passenger_profile p\
where i.flight_id=f.flight_id\
and p.profile_id=i.profile_id\
and f.airline_name='go air'\
group by p.profile_id);\
\
\
24)\
Write a query to find the number of passengers traveled on each flight on each scheduled date and total price of the tickets booked. The Query should display \
flight_id, from_location, to_location,flight_departure_date,number of passengers as \'ecNo_of_Passengers\'ee&nbsp;(alias name), Total Price of the tickets booked as\
 \'ecTotal_Price\'ee&nbsp;(alias name). Hint: The Number of passengers inclusive of all the tickets booked with single profile id. "Total_Price" should be calculated \
as (No_of_Passengers * price of single ticket\
\
select f.flight_id,f.from_location,f.to_location,p.flight_departure_date,count(p.profile_id) as no_of_passengers,\
(d.price*count(p.profile_id))as total_price from air_flight f,air_ticket_info p,air_flight_details d\
where p.flight_id=d.flight_id and f.flight_id=p.flight_id\
group by p.flight_id,p.flight_departure_date;\
\
25)Write a query to find the customers who are travelling together on the same flight. The Query should display profile_id, first_name,last_name,flight_id,\
 flight_departure_date ,from_location and to_location. The result should be sorted based on the flight id and flight departure date. Hint: Distinct profile \
id should be displayed irrespective of multiple tickets booked.Display the result only if more than one customers travelling on the same flight. For Eg: If the\
 profile ID P1 &amp; P2 booked the ticket on flight F1 on May 3rd and 10th respectively then do not display P1 &amp; P2. If both P1 &amp; P2 booked the ticket on \
flight F1 on May 12th (same day) then display P1 &amp; P2 as they will travel together\
\
select ap.profile_id,ap.first_name,ap.last_name,b.flight_id,b.flight_departure_date,c.from_location,c.to_location\
from air_ticket_info a\
join \
(\
select  flight_id,flight_departure_date from air_ticket_info  group by flight_id,flight_departure_date having count(profile_id)>1) xx\
on a.flight_id=xx.flight_id and a.flight_departure_date=xx.flight_departure_date\
join air_flight_details b\
on xx.flight_id=b.flight_id\
join air_flight c\
on c.flight_id=b.flight_id\
join \
air_passenger_profile ap\
on ap.profile_id=a.profile_id\
\
\
26)\
Write a query to find the flights available in Morning, After Noon, Evening &amp; Night. The Query should display the Flight_Id, From_Location, To_Location ,\
 Departure_Time, time of service as "Time_of_Service". Time of Service should be calculated as: From 05:00:01 Hrs to 12:00:00 Hrs -  Morning, 12:00:01 to 18:00:00 Hrs\
 -Afternoon, 18:00:01 to 24:00:00 - Evening and 00:00:01 to 05:00:00 \'f1 Night \
\
select distinct f.flight_id,f.from_location,f.to_location,f.departure_time,\
case \
when f.departure_time>='05:00:01' and f.departure_time<='12:00:00' \
then 'morning'\
when f.departure_time>='12:00:01' and f.departure_time<='18:00:00' \
then 'afternoon'\
 when f.departure_time>='18:00:01' and f.departure_time<='24:00:00' \
then 'evening'\
 when f.departure_time>='00:00:01' and f.departure_time<='05:00:00' \
then 'night'\
end as service_time\
from air_flight f;\
\
27)\
Write a query to find the flight which has least number of services in the month of May. The Query should fetch flight_id, from_location, to_location,\
least number of Services as \'ecNo_of_Services\'ee Hint: Number of services offered can be calculated from the number of scheduled departure dates of a flight\
\
\
select f.flight_id, f.from_location , f.to_location, count(a.flight_departure_date)as No_of_services \
from air_flight f, air_flight_details a\
where f.flight_id = a.flight_id\
group by f.airline_name \
having count(a.flight_departure_date) <= all(select  count(a.flight_departure_date) from air_flight f, air_flight_details a\
where f.flight_id = a.flight_id\
group by f.airline_name );\
\
BANK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM\
\
                        Q1 Bank Database Solutions\
\
1. Write a query which will display the customer id, account type they hold, their account number and bank\
2. Write a query which will display the customer id, account type and the account number of HDFC customers\
3. Write a query which will display the customer id, customer name, account no, account type and bank name\
4. Write a query which will display the customer id, customer name, gender, marital status along with the unique reference string and sort the records based on customer id in descending order. <b>Hint: Generate unique reference string as mentioned below: CustomerName_Gender_MaritalStatus<b> Example, C-005 KUMAR M SINGLE KUMAR_M_SINGLE\
5. Write a query which will display the account number, customer id, registration date, initial deposit amount of\
6. Write a query which will display customer id, customer name, date of birth, guardian name of the customers\
7. Write a query which will display customer id, account number and passcode. Hint: To generate passcode, join the last three digits of customer id and last four digit of account number. ExampleC-001 1234567898765432 0015432Use "PASSCODE" as alias name for displaying the passcode.\
8. Write a query which will display the customer id, customer name, date of birth, Marital Status, Gender, Guardian name, contact no and email id of the customers whose gender is male 'M' and marital status is\
9. Write a query which will display the customer id, customer name, guardian name, reference account holders\
10. Write a query to display the customer id, account number and interest amount in the below format with INTEREST_AMT as alias name. Sort the result based on the INTEREST_AMT in ascending order. Example: $5Hint:\
11. Write a query which will display the customer id, customer name, account no, account type, activation date,\
12. Write a query which will display account number, customer id, customer name, bank name, branch name,\
13. Write a query which will display customer id, customer name, date of birth, guardian name, contact number, mail id and reference account holder's name of the customers who has submitted the passport as an\
14. Write a query to display the customer id, customer name, account number, account type, initial deposit,\
15. Write a query to display the customer id, customer name, account number, account type, interest, bank\
16. Write a query to display the customer id, customer name, account no, bank name, contact no and mail id of\
17. Write a query which will display customer id, bank name, branch name, ifsc code, registration date, activation date of the customers whose activation date is in the month of march (March 1'st to March 31'st).\
18. Write a query which will calculate the interest amount and display it along with customer id, customer name, account number, account type, interest, and initial deposit amount.Hint :Formula for interest amount, calculate:\
19. Write a query to display the customer id, customer name, date of birth, guardian name, contact number,\
20. Write a query which will display the customer id, customer name and contact number with ISD code of all customers in below mentioned format. Sort the result based on the customer id in descending order. Format for contact number is : "+91-3digits-3digits-4digits" Example: +91-924-234-2312\
21. Write a query which will display account number, account type, customer id, customer name, date of birth, guardian name, contact no, mail id , gender, reference account holders name, reference account holders account number, registration date, activation date, number of days between the registration date and activation\
22. Write a query which will display customer id, customer name, guardian name, identification doc type, reference account holders name, account type, ifsc code, bank name and current balance for the customers who has only the savings account.\
23. Write a query which will display the customer id, customer name, account number, account type, interest, initial deposit; check the initial deposit, if initial deposit is 20000 then display "high", if initial deposit is 16000 display 'moderate', if initial deposit is 10000 display 'average', if initial deposit is 5000 display 'low', if initial deposit is 0 display 'very low' otherwise display 'invalid' and sort by interest in descending order.\
24. Write a query which will display customer id, customer name, account number, account type, bank name, ifsc code, initial deposit amount and new interest amount for the customers whose name starts with "J". Hint: Formula for calculating "new interest amount" is if customers account type is savings then add 10 % on current interest amount to interest amount else display the current interest amount. Round the new interest amount to 2 decimals. Use "NEW_INTEREST" as alias name for displaying the new interest amount.Example, Assume Jack has savings account and his current interest amount is 10.00, then the new interest\
25. Write query to display the customer id, customer name, account no, initial deposit, tax percentage as calculated below.Hint: If initial deposit = 0 then tax is '0%'If initial deposit &lt;= 10000 then tax is '3%' If initial deposit &gt; 10000 and initial deposit &lt; 20000 then tax is '5%' If initial deposit &gt;= 20000 and initial\
\
\
\
\
\
ANSWERS\
\
\
\
\
\
\
1)	select a.Customer_ID, a.account_type, a.account_no, b.bank_name from account_info a\
join bank_info b on(a.ifsc_code = b.ifsc_code);\
\
2)	select Customer_ID, account_type, account_no from account_info a\
join bank_info b on(a.ifsc_code = b.ifsc_code) where b.bank_name = 'HDFC' \
and registration_date between '2012-01-12' and '2012-04-04';\
\
3)	select a.Customer_ID, c.Customer_Name, a.account_no, a.account_type, b.bank_name from account_info a\
join bank_info b on(a.ifsc_code = b.ifsc_code)\
join customer_personal_info c on(a.customer_id = c.customer_id);\
\
4)	select Customer_ID, Customer_Name, gender, marital_status, concat(customer_name,'_',gender,'_',marital_status)\
UNIQUE_REF_STRING from customer_personal_info;\
\
5)	select account_no, customer_id, registration_date, initial_deposit from account_info\
where initial_deposit between 15000 and 25000;\
\
6)	select Customer_ID, Customer_Name, date_of_birth, guardian_name from customer_personal_info where guardian_name like 'j%';\
\
7)	select Customer_ID, account_no, concat(substr(customer_id,3,5),substr(account_no,14,16)) passcode from account_info;\
\
8)	select Customer_ID, Customer_Name, date_of_birth, marital_status, gender, guardian_name, contact_no, mail_id from customer_personal_info where gender = 'm' and marital_status = 'married';\
\
9)	select c.customer_id, c.Customer_Name, c.guardian_name, r.reference_acc_name from customer_personal_info c join customer_reference_info r on(c.customer_id = r.customer_id) where relation = 'friend';\
\
10)	select customer_id, account_no, concat('$',round(interest)) INTEREST_AMT from account_info group by interest;\
\
11)	select i.Customer_ID, i.Customer_Name, a.account_no, a.account_type, a.activation_date, b.bank_name\
from customer_personal_info i join account_info a on(i.customer_id = a.customer_id)\
join bank_info b on(a.ifsc_code = b.ifsc_code)\
where a.activation_date = '2012-04-10';\
\
12)	select a.account_no, a.customer_id, c.customer_name, b.bank_name, b.branch_name, b.ifsc_code, c.citizenship, a.interest, a.initial_deposit from account_info a\
join bank_info b on(a.ifsc_code = b.ifsc_code)\
join customer_personal_info c on(a.customer_id = c.customer_id);\
\
13)	select a.customer_id, a.customer_name, a.date_of_birth, a.guardian_name, a.contact_no, a.mail_id, b.reference_acc_name from customer_personal_info a join customer_reference_info b on(a.customer_id = b.customer_id) where a.identification_doc_type = 'passport';\
\
14)	select b.customer_id, a.customer_name, b.account_no, b.account_type, b.initial_deposit, b.interest from customer_personal_info a join account_info b on(a.customer_id = b.customer_id) where b.initial_deposit = (select max(initial_deposit) from account_info);\
\
15)	select b.customer_id, a.customer_name, b.account_no, b.account_type, b.interest,c.bank_name,b.initial_deposit from account_info b join customer_personal_info a on(a.customer_id = b.customer_id) join bank_info c on(b.ifsc_code = c.ifsc_code) where b.interest = (select max(interest) from account_info);\
\
16)	select a.Customer_ID, a.customer_name, b.account_no, c.bank_name, a.contact_no, a.mail_id from customer_personal_info a join account_info b on(a.customer_id = b.customer_id) join bank_info c on(b.ifsc_code = c.ifsc_code) where a.address like '%bangalore';\
\
17)	select b.customer_id, a.bank_name, a.branch_name, a.ifsc_code, b.registration_date, b.activation_date from bank_info a join account_info b on(a.ifsc_code = b.ifsc_code)\
where b.activation_date like '%-03-%';\
\
18)	select a.customer_id, a.customer_name, b.account_no, b.account_type, b.interest, b.initial_deposit, ((b.interest/100)*b.initial_deposit) interest_amt from customer_personal_info a join account_info b on(a.customer_id = b.customer_id);\
\
19)	select a.customer_id, a.customer_name, a.date_of_birth, a.guardian_name, a.contact_no, a.mail_id, b.reference_acc_name\
from customer_personal_info a join customer_reference_info b on(a.customer_id = b.customer_id) where reference_acc_name = 'raghul';\
\
20)	select Customer_ID, Customer_Name, concat('+91-',substr(contact_no,1,3),'-',substr(contact_no,4,3),'-',substr(contact_no,7,4)) CONTACT_ISD from customer_personal_info;\
\
21)	select a.ACCOUNT_NO, a.ACCOUNT_TYPE, a.CUSTOMER_ID, b.CUSTOMER_NAME, b.DATE_OF_BIRTH, b.GUARDIAN_NAME, b.CONTACT_NO, b.MAIL_ID, b.GENDER, c.REFERENCE_ACC_NAME, c.REFERENCE_ACC_NO, a.REGISTRATION_DATE, a.ACTIVATION_DATE, d.BANK_NAME, d.BRANCH_NAME, a.INITIAL_DEPOSIT, (a.ACTIVATION_DATE-a.REGISTRATION_DATE) NoOfDaysForActivation from account_info a join customer_personal_info b on(a.customer_id = b.customer_id) \
join bank_info d on(a.ifsc_code = d.ifsc_code) join customer_reference_info c on(b.customer_id = c.customer_id);\
\
22)	select a.CUSTOMER_ID, a.CUSTOMER_NAME, a.GUARDIAN_NAME, a.IDENTIFICATION_DOC_TYPE, b.REFERENCE_ACC_NAME, c.ACCOUNT_TYPE, c.IFSC_CODE, d.BANK_NAME, round(c.initial_deposit+((c.interest/100)*c.initial_deposit)) current_balance from customer_personal_info a join customer_reference_info b on(b.customer_id = a.customer_id) join account_info c on(a.customer_id = c.customer_id)\
join bank_info d on(c.ifsc_code = d.ifsc_code);\
\
23)	select a.CUSTOMER_ID, b.CUSTOMER_NAME, a.ACCOUNT_NO, a.ACCOUNT_TYPE, a.INTEREST, CASE WHEN INITIAL_DEPOSIT = 20000 then 'high' \
WHEN INITIAL_DEPOSIT = 16000 then 'moderate' WHEN INITIAL_DEPOSIT = 10000 THEN 'average\'ed when INITIAL_DEPOSIT = 5000 then 'low' when initial_deposit = 0 then 'very low' END as Deposit_Status from account_info a\
join customer_personal_info b on(a.customer_id = b.customer_id);\
\
24)	select a.CUSTOMER_ID, b.CUSTOMER_NAME, a.ACCOUNT_NO, a.ACCOUNT_TYPE, c.BANK_NAME, c.IFSC_CODE, a.INITIAL_DEPOSIT, if(ACCOUNT_TYPE = 'savings', round(a.interest+(a.interest*(a.interest/100)),2), a.interest) as NEW_INTEREST\
 from account_info a join customer_personal_info b on(a.customer_id = b.customer_id)\
join bank_info c on(a.ifsc_code = c.ifsc_code) \
where CUSTOMER_NAME like 'j%';\
\
25)	select a.CUSTOMER_ID, b.customer_name, a.account_no, a.INITIAL_DEPOSIT,\
case\
when a.INITIAL_DEPOSIT = 0 then '0%'\
when a.INITIAL_DEPOSIT <= 10000 then '3%'\
when a.INITIAL_DEPOSIT > 10000 && a.INITIAL_DEPOSIT <= 20000 then '5%'\
when a.INITIAL_DEPOSIT > 20000 && a.INITIAL_DEPOSIT <= 30000 then '7%'\
when a.INITIAL_DEPOSIT > 30000 then '10%'\
END as taxPercentage from account_info a\
join customer_personal_info b on(a.customer_id = b.customer_id);\
\
\
AIRLINE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FLIGHT\
\
1.	Write a query to display the average monthly ticket cost for each flight in ABC  Airlines. The query should display the Flight_Id,From_location,To_Location,Month Name as \'ecMonth_Name\'ee and average price as \'ecAverage_Price\'ee\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on flight id and then by Month Name.\
SELECT f.flight_id,\
              f.from_location,\
              f.to_location,\
              fp.Month_Name,\
              fp.Average_Price  \
FROM  air_flight f,\
(\
SELECT flight_id,\
 MONTHNAME(flight_departure_date) AS Month_Name,\
               AVG(price) as Average_Price\
FROM air_flight_details\
GROUP BY flight_id,  MONTHNAME(flight_departure_date)\
) fp\
WHERE f.flight_id = fp.flight_id\
and f.airline_name = 'ABC AIRLINES'\
order by f.flight_id, fp.Month_Name;\
\
(or)\
SELECT f.flight_id,f.from_location,f.to_location,\
monthname(af.flight_departure_date) as Month_Name,\
AVG(price) as Average_Price\
from air_flight f inner join air_flight_details af\
on f.flight_id = af.flight_id\
where f.airline_name = 'abc'\
group by f.flight_id,f.from_location,f.to_location,Month_Name \
order by f.flight_id, Month_Name;\
\
\
2.	Write a query to display the number of flight services between locations in a month. The Query should display From_Location, To_Location, Month as \'ecMonth_Name\'ee and number of flight services as \'ecNo_of_Services\'ee.  \
<br>Hint: The Number of Services can be calculated from the number of scheduled departure dates of a flight.\
<br> The records should be displayed in ascending order based on From_Location and then by To_Location and then by month name.\
\
SELECT f.from_location,\
              f.to_location,\
             s.Month_Name,\
             SUM(s.No_of_Services) AS No_of_Services\
FROM air_flight f  JOIN\
(SELECT flight_id,\
              MONTHNAME(flight_departure_date) AS Month_Name,\
              COUNT(flight_departure_date) AS No_of_Services\
FROM  air_flight_details\
GROUP BY flight_id,  MONTHNAME(flight_departure_date)\
) s\
ON s.flight_id  = f.flight_id\
GROUP BY f.from_location,\
                f.to_Location,\
               s.Month_Name\
order by f.from_location,\
                f.to_Location, s.Month_Name;\
\
(or)\
\
SELECT f.from_location,f.to_location,\
monthname(af.flight_departure_date) as Month_Name,\
count(af.flight_departure_date) as No_of_Services \
from air_flight f inner join air_flight_details af\
on f.flight_id = af.flight_id\
group by f.from_location,f.to_location,Month_Name\
order by f.from_location,f.to_Location,Month_Name;\
\
3.  Write a query to display the customer(s) who has/have booked least number of tickets in ABC Airlines. The Query should display profile_id, customer\'eds first_name, Address and Number of tickets booked as \'ecNo_of_Tickets\'ee\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on customer's first name.\
\
SELECT cus.profile_id,\
              cus.first_name,\
              cus.address,\
              mintkt.No_of_Tickets\
FROM  air_passenger_profile cus,\
           (SELECT MIN(s.Tot_No_of_Tickets) AS No_of_Tickets\
            FROM   (SELECT profile_id, \
                                         COUNT(ticket_id) AS Tot_No_of_Tickets\
                           FROM   air_ticket_info\
                           GROUP BY profile_id\
                          ) s\
           ) mintkt,\
          ( SELECT profile_id,\
                         COUNT(ticket_id) AS Tot_No_of_Tickets\
            FROM  air_ticket_info\
            GROUP BY profile_id\
          ) tottkt\
WHERE mintkt.No_of_Tickets = tottkt.Tot_No_of_Tickets\
AND      cus.profile_id = tottkt.profile_id\
order by cus.first_name;\
(OR)\
SELECT cus.profile_id,cus.first_name,cus.address,\
              count(ticket_id) as No_of_Tickets\
FROM  air_passenger_profile cus inner join air_ticket_info ati\
on cus.profile_id = ati.profile_id\
inner join air_flight af\
on  af.flight_id=ati.flight_id\
where af.airline_name = 'abc'\
group by cus.profile_id,cus.first_name,cus.address\
having count(ticket_id)<=all(select count(ticket_id) \
FROM  air_passenger_profile cus inner join air_ticket_info ati\
on cus.profile_id = ati.profile_id\
inner join air_flight af\
on  af.flight_id=ati.flight_id)\
order by cus.first_name;\
\
4.	Write a query to display the number of tickets booked from Chennai to Hyderabad. The Query should display passenger profile_id,first_name,last_name, Flight_Id , Departure_Date and  number of tickets booked as \'ecNo_of_Tickets\'ee.\
\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on profile id and then by flight id and then by departure date.\
SELECT cus.profile_id,\
              cus.first_name,\
              cus.last_name,\
              tkt.flight_id,\
             tkt.flight_departure_date,\
             tkt.No_of_Tickets\
FROM   air_passenger_profile cus JOIN\
(\
SELECT profile_id, FLIGHT_ID,FLIGHT_DEPARTURE_DATE,COUNT(ticket_id) AS No_of_Tickets\
FROM   air_ticket_info\
WHERE  flight_id IN (SELECT flight_id \
                        FROM   air_flight\
                                    WHERE  from_location = 'Chennai'\
         AND    to_location = 'Hyderabad'\
     )\
GROUP BY profile_id,flight_id,flight_departure_date\
)tkt\
ON cus.profile_id = tkt.profile_id\
order by cus.profile_id, tkt.flight_id, tkt.flight_departure_date;\
\
\
(OR)\
\
SELECT cus.profile_id,cus.first_name,cus.last_name,ati.flight_id,\
             ati.flight_departure_date,\
            COUNT(ticket_id) AS No_of_Tickets\
FROM air_ticket_info ati inner join air_passenger_profile cus \
on cus.profile_id = ati.profile_id\
inner join air_flight af\
on  af.flight_id=ati.flight_id\
WHERE  from_location = 'Chennai'\
AND  to_location = 'Hyderabad'\
group by cus.profile_id,cus.first_name,cus.last_name,ati.flight_id,\
             ati.flight_departure_date\
order by cus.profile_id, ati.flight_id, ati.flight_departure_date;\
\
5.	Write a query to display flight id,from location, to location and ticket price of flights whose departure is in the month of april.\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on flight id and then by from location.\
SELECT fd.flight_id,af.FROM_LOCATION,af.TO_LOCATION, fd.price\
 FROM air_flight_details fd join air_flight af \
on af.FLIGHT_ID=fd.FLIGHT_ID \
where substring(fd.flight_departure_date,6,2)='04' \
order by fd.flight_id, af.FROM_LOCATION;\
\
6.	Write a query to display the average cost of the tickets in each flight on all scheduled dates. The query should display flight_id, from_location, to_location and Average price as \'ecPrice\'ee.\
\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on flight id and then by from_location and then by to_location.\
SELECT f.flight_id,\
              f.from_location,\
              f.to_location,\
             AVG(fd.Price) AS Price\
FROM  air_flight f JOIN\
             air_flight_details fd\
ON      f.flight_id = fd.flight_id\
GROUP BY f.flight_id \
order by f.flight_id, f.from_location, f.to_location;\
\
7.	Write a query to display the customers who have booked tickets from Chennai to Hyderabad. The query should display profile_id, customer_name (combine first_name & last_name with comma in b/w), address of the customer.\
\
Give an alias to the name as customer_name.\
 Hint: Query should fetch unique customers irrespective of multiple tickets booked.\
\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on profile id.\
SELECT DISTINCT c.profile_id,\
              CONCAT(c.first_name, ',',c.last_name) AS customer_name,\
              c.address\
FROM  air_passenger_profile c JOIN    air_ticket_info t\
ON      c.profile_id = t.profile_id\
JOIN   air_flight f\
ON     f.flight_id = t.flight_id\
WHERE  f.from_location = 'Chennai'\
AND  f.to_location = 'Hyderabad'\
order by c.profile_id;\
\
8.	Write a query to display profile id of the passenger(s) who has/have booked maximum number of tickets.\
In case of multiple records, display the records sorted in ascending order based on profile id.\
SELECT profile_id \
FROM air_ticket_info\
 group by profile_id\
 having count(profile_id)>=all(select count(profile_id)\
 from air_ticket_info\
 group by profile_id) \
order by profile_id;\
\
9.	Write a query to display the total number of tickets as \'ecNo_of_Tickets\'ee booked in each flight in ABC Airlines. The Query should display the flight_id, from_location, to_location and the number of tickets.\
Display only the flights in which atleast 1 ticket is booked.\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on flight id.\
SELECT f.flight_id,\
          f.from_location,\
          f.to_location,\
         COUNT(t.ticket_id) AS No_of_Tickets\
FROM air_ticket_info t JOIN\
            air_flight f\
ON      f.flight_id = t.flight_id\
where AIRLINE_NAME = 'abc'\
GROUP by f.flight_id\
ORDER by f.flight_id;\
\
10.	Write a query to display the no of services offered by each flight and the total price of the services. The Query should display flight_id, number of services as \'ecNo_of_Services\'ee and the cost as \'ecTotal_Price\'ee in the same order. \
\
Order the result by Total Price in descending order and then by flight_id in descending order.\
\
Hint:The number of services can be calculated from the number of scheduled departure dates of the flight\
SELECT flight_id,\
             COUNT(flight_departure_date) AS No_of_Services,\
             SUM(price) AS Total_Price\
FROM  air_flight_details\
GROUP BY flight_id \
order by total_price DESC, flight_id DESC;\
\
11.	Write a query to display the number of passengers who have travelled in each flight in each scheduled date. The Query should display flight_id, flight_departure_date and the number of passengers as \'ecNo_of_Passengers\'ee in the same order.\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on flight id and then by flight departure date.\
SELECT flight_id,\
              flight_departure_date,\
              COUNT(ticket_id) AS No_of_Passengers\
FROM   air_ticket_info \
GROUP BY flight_id   flight_departure_date\
ORDER BY flight_id, flight_departure_date;\
\
12.	Write a query to display profile id of passenger(s) who booked minimum number of tickets.\
In case of multiple records, display the records sorted in ascending order based on profile id.\
SELECT profile_id \
FROM air_ticket_info\
 group by profile_id \
having count(profile_id)<=all(select count(profile_id)\
 from air_ticket_info\
 group by profile_id) \
order by profile_id;\
\
13.	Write a query to display unique passenger profile id, first name, mobile number and email address of passengers who booked ticket to travel from HYDERABAD to CHENNAI.\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on profile id.\
SELECT distinct ti.PROFILE_ID,pi.first_name,pi.mobile_number, pi.email_id\
 FROM air_ticket_info ti join air_passenger_profile pi \
on pi.profile_id=ti.profile_id\
 where flight_id in (SELECT FLIGHT_ID FROM air_flight \
where FROM_LOCATION ='HYDERABAD' \
and to_location ='CHENNAI') \
order by ti.profile_id\
\
14.	Write a query to intimate the passengers who are boarding Chennai to Hyderabad Flight on 6th May 2013 stating the delay of 1hr in the departure time. The Query should display the passenger\'eds profile_id, first_name,last_name, flight_id, flight_departure_date,  actual departure time , actual arrival time , delayed departure time as "Delayed_Departure_Time", delayed arrival time as "Delayed_Arrival_Time" Hint: Distinct  Profile ID should be displayed irrespective of multiple tickets booked by the same profile.\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on passenger's profile id.\
SELECT DISTINCT p.profile_id,\
p.first_name,\
p.last_name,\
t.flight_id,\
t.flight_departure_date,\
f.departure_time,\
f.arrival_time,\
ADDTIME(f.departure_time,'01:00:00') AS Delayed_Departure_Time,\
ADDTIME(f.arrival_time,'01:00:00') AS Delayed_Arrival_Time\
FROM air_passenger_profile p\
JOIN air_ticket_info t\
ON p.profile_id = t.profile_id\
JOIN air_flight f\
ON t.flight_id = f.flight_id\
WHERE t.flight_departure_date = '2013-05-06'\
AND f.from_location = 'Chennai'\
AND f.to_location = 'Hyderabad'\
order by p.profile_id;\
\
15.	Write a query to display the number of tickets as \'ecNo_of_Tickets\'ee booked by Kochi Customers. The Query should display the Profile_Id, First_Name, Base_Location and number of tickets booked.\
\
 Hint: Use String functions to get the base location of customer from their Address and give alias name as \'ecBase_Location\'ee\
\
 Display the records sorted in ascending order based on customer first name.\
SELECT cus.profile_id,\
              cus.First_name,        \
              SUBSTR(cus.address,INSTR(cus.address,',')+1,INSTR(cus.address,'-')- INSTR(cus.address,',')-1) \
              AS Base_Location,\
             s.No_of_Tickets\
FROM  air_passenger_profile cus JOIN\
(\
SELECT profile_id,\
           COUNT(ticket_id) AS No_of_Tickets\
FROM  air_ticket_info\
GROUP BY profile_id\
)s\
ON s.profile_id = cus.profile_id\
AND  SUBSTR(cus.address,INSTR(cus.address,',')+1,INSTR(cus.address,'-')- INSTR(cus.address,',')-1) = 'Kochi' \
order by first_name;\
(OR)\
select a.profile_id,first_name,SUBSTR(a.address,INSTR(a.address,',')+1,INSTR(a.address,'-')- INSTR(a.address,',')-1) as baseadres,\
count(ticket_id) as No_of_Tickets\
from air_passenger_profile a\
join air_ticket_info ati\
on a.profile_id=ati.profile_id\
join air_flight af\
on af.flight_id=ati.flight_id\
where af.from_location='kochi'\
group by a.profile_id,first_name,baseadres\
order by first_name;\
\
16.	Write a query to display the flight_id, from_location, to_location, number of Services as \'ecNo_of_Services\'ee offered in the month of May.\
SELECT f.flight_id,\
              f.from_location,\
              f.to_location,\
             s.No_of_Services\
FROM  air_flight f JOIN\
(\
SELECT flight_id,\
             COUNT(flight_departure_date) AS No_of_Services\
FROM  air_flight_details\
WHERE MONTH(flight_departure_date) = 5\
GROUP BY flight_id\
) s\
ON f.flight_id = s.flight_id\
order by f.flight_id;\
                                                              (or)\
SELECT f.flight_id,\
              f.from_location,\
              f.to_location,\
             count(flight_departure_date) as No_of_Services\
FROM  air_flight f JOIN air_flight_details af \
on f.flight_id = af.flight_id\
where extract(month from flight_departure_date)='05'\
group by f.flight_id,f.from_location,f.to_location\
order by f.flight_id;\
\
17.	Write a query to display profile id,last name,mobile number and email id of passengers whose base location is chennai.\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on profile id.\
SELECT PROFILE_ID, LAST_NAME, MOBILE_NUMBER, EMAIL_ID\
 FROM air_passenger_profile\
 where address like '%CHENNAI%' \
ORDER BY PROFILE_ID;\
\
18.	Write a query to display number of flights between 6.00 AM and 6.00 PM from chennai. Hint Use FLIGHT_COUNT as alias name.\
SELECT count(flight_id) FLIGHT_COUNT\
 FROM air_flight \
where FROM_LOCATION='CHENNAI' \
and departure_time between '06:00:00' and '18:00:00';\
\
19.	Write a query to display unique profile id,first name , email id and contact number of passenger(s) who travelled on flight with id 3148. Display the records sorted in ascending order based on first name.\
SELECT distinct ti.PROFILE_ID,pi.first_name,pi.email_id,pi.mobile_number\
 FROM air_ticket_info ti join air_passenger_profile pi\
 on pi.profile_id=ti.profile_id \
where flight_id=3148 \
order by pi.first_name;\
\
20.	Write a query to display flight id,departure date,flight type of all flights. Flight type can be identified based on the following rules : if ticket price is less than 3000 then 'AIR PASSENGER',ticket price between 3000 and less than 4000 'AIR BUS' and ticket price between 4000 and greater than 4000 then 'EXECUTIVE PASSENGER'. Hint use FLIGHT_TYPE as alias name.\
\
Display the records sorted in ascendeing order based on flight_id and then by departure date.\
select flight_id,flight_departure_date,\
case \
when price<3000 then 'AIR PASSENGER'\
when price>=3000 and price<4000 then 'AIR BUS'\
when price>=4000 then 'EXECUTIVE PASSENGER'\
end  as  FLIGHT_TYPE \
from  air_flight_details \
order by flight_id, flight_departure_date;\
\
21.	Write a query to display the credit card type and no of credit cards used on the same type.  Display the records sorted in ascending order based on credit card type.\
Hint: Use CARD_COUNT AS Alias name for no of cards.\
\
SELECT CARD_TYPE, count(card_type) CARD_COUNT \
FROM air_credit_card_details\
 group by CARD_TYPE \
order by CARD_TYPE;\
\
22.	Write a Query to display serial no, first name, mobile number, email id of all the passengers who holds email address from gmail.com.\
The Serial No will be the last three digits of profile ID.\
Hint: Use SERIAL_NO as Alias name for serial number.\
<br>\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on name.\
select substring(profile_id,4) SERIAL_NO,first_name,mobile_number,email_id\
 from air_passenger_profile \
where email_id like '%@gmail.com' \
order by first_name;\
\
23.	Write a query to display the flight(s) which has least number of services in the month of May. The Query should fetch flight_id, from_location, to_location, least number of Services as \'ecNo_of_Services\'ee Hint: Number of services offered can be calculated from the number of scheduled departure dates of a flight\
\
 If there are multiple flights, display them sorted in ascending order based on flight id.\
SELECT f.flight_id,\
              f.from_location,\
              f.to_location,\
             mins.No_of_Services\
FROM  air_flight f,\
(\
SELECT MIN(s.No_of_Services) AS No_of_Services\
FROM  (SELECT flight_id,\
                           COUNT(flight_departure_date) AS No_of_Services\
               FROM  air_flight_details fd\
               WHERE MONTH(flight_departure_date) = 5\
               GROUP BY flight_id\
              )s\
) mins,\
(\
SELECT flight_id,\
             COUNT(flight_departure_date) AS No_of_Services\
FROM  air_flight_details fd\
WHERE MONTH(flight_departure_date) = 5\
GROUP BY flight_id\
) ser\
WHERE mins.No_of_Services = ser.No_of_Services\
AND      ser.flight_id = f.flight_id\
order by f.flight_id;\
\
\
                               (OR)\
\
\
 SELECT f.flight_id,f.from_location,f.to_location,\
             COUNT(flight_departure_date) AS No_of_Services\
FROM  air_flight f inner join air_flight_details fd\
on fd.flight_id = f.flight_id\
where MONTH(flight_departure_date) = 5\
group by f.flight_id,f.from_location,f.to_location\
having COUNT(flight_departure_date)<=all(\
select COUNT(flight_departure_date) \
from air_flight f inner join air_flight_details fd\
on fd.flight_id = f.flight_id\
group by f.flight_id  )\
order by f.flight_id;\
24.	Write a query to display the flights available in Morning, AfterNoon, Evening & Night. The Query should display the Flight_Id, From_Location, To_Location , Departure_Time, time of service as "Time_of_Service". \
\
Time of Service should be calculated as: From 05:00:01 Hrs to 12:00:00 Hrs -  Morning, 12:00:01 to 18:00:00 Hrs -AfterNoon, 18:00:01 to 24:00:00 - Evening and 00:00:01 to 05:00:00 - Night\
\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on flight id.\
SELECT f.flight_id,\
f.from_location,\
f.to_location,\
f.Departure_Time,\
CASE\
 WHEN f.departure_time BETWEEN ('05:00:01') AND ('12:00:00')\
THEN 'Morning'\
WHEN f.departure_time BETWEEN ('12:00:01') AND ('18:00:00')\
THEN 'AfterNoon'\
WHEN f.departure_time BETWEEN ('18:00:01') AND ('24:00:00')\
THEN 'Evening'\
WHEN f.departure_time BETWEEN ('00:00:01') AND ('05:00:00')\
THEN 'Night'\
END AS Time_of_Service\
FROM air_flight f\
order by f.flight_id;\
\
25.	Write a query to display the number of flights flying from each location. The Query should display the from location and the number of flights to other locations as \'ecNo_of_Flights\'ee. \
\
Hint: Get the distinct from location and to location.\
\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on from location.\
SELECT f.from_location ,\
             COUNT(f.flight_id) AS No_of_Flights\
FROM  air_flight f\
JOIN\
(\
SELECT DISTINCT from_location AS Location\
FROM  air_flight\
UNION\
SELECT DISTINCT to_location AS Location\
FROM air_flight\
)a\
ON f.from_location = a.location\
GROUP BY f.from_location\
ORDER BY f.from_location;\
\
(OR)\
select distinct from_location,count(flight_id)\
FROM air_flight\
group by from_location\
ORDER BY from_location;\
\
26.	Write a query to display the number of passengers traveled in each flight in each scheduled date. The Query should display flight_id,from_location,To_location, flight_departure_date and the number of passengers as \'ecNo_of_Passengers\'ee. \
\
Hint: The Number of passengers inclusive of all the tickets booked with single profile id.\
\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on flight id and then by flight departure date.\
SELECT f.flight_id,\
              f.from_location,\
              f.to_location,\
              t.FLIGHT_DEPARTURE_DATE,\
              t.No_of_Passengers\
FROM  air_flight f\
JOIN\
(\
SELECT flight_id,\
              FLIGHT_DEPARTURE_DATE,\
              COUNT(ticket_id) AS No_of_Passengers\
FROM   air_ticket_info \
GROUP BY flight_id,\
                              FLIGHT_DEPARTURE_DATE\
)t\
ON f.flight_id = t.flight_id\
order by f.flight_id, t.flight_departure_date;\
\
(OR)\
SELECT f.flight_id,\
              f.from_location,\
              f.to_location,\
              ati.flight_departure_date,\
              count(ati.flight_id) as No_of_Passengers\
FROM  air_flight f inner join air_ticket_info ati\
on f.flight_id = ati.flight_id\
group by f.flight_id,f.from_location,f.to_location,ati.flight_departure_date\
order by f.flight_id, ati.flight_departure_date;\
\
27.	Write a query to display the flight details in which more than 10% of seats have been booked. The query should display Flight_Id, From_Location, To_Location,Total_Seats, seats booked as \'ecNo_of_Seats_Booked\'ee .\
\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on flight id and then by No_of_Seats_Booked.\
SELECT f.flight_id,\
       f.from_location,\
       f.to_location,\
       f.Total_Seats,\
   (f.Total_Seats)-(fd.Available_Seats) AS No_of_Seats_Booked\
FROM  air_flight f JOIN air_flight_details fd\
ON       f.flight_id = fd.flight_id\
Where  (f.Total_Seats)-(fd.Available_seats) > (f.total_seats *0.1)\
order by f.flight_id, No_of_Seats_Booked;\
\
28. Write a query to display the Flight_Id, Flight_Departure_Date, From_Location,To_Location and Duration  of all flights which has duration of travel less than 1 Hour, 10 Minutes.\
SELECT distinct  f.flight_id,\
    fd.flight_departure_date,\
    f.from_location,\
    f.to_location,\
    f.duration\
FROM   air_flight f JOIN air_flight_details fd\
ON     f.flight_id = fd.flight_id\
WHERE  f.duration < '01:10:00'\
order by f.flight_id, fd.flight_departure_date;\
\
29.	Write a query to display the flight_id, from_location,to_location,number of services as \'ecNo_of_Services\'ee , average ticket price as \'ecAverage_Price\'ee whose average ticket price is greater than the total average ticket cost of  all flights. Order the result by lowest average price.\
SELECT f.flight_id,\
             f.from_location,\
             f.to_location,\
             a.No_of_Services,\
             a.Average_Price\
FROM air_flight f JOIN         \
(\
SELECT flight_id,  COUNT(flight_departure_date) AS No_of_Services,   AVG(price) AS Average_Price\
FROM  air_flight_details\
GROUP BY flight_id\
HAVING AVG(price) > (SELECT AVG(price) FROM air_flight_details)\
)a\
ON f.flight_id = a.flight_id \
order by average_price ASC\
\
\
(OR)\
SELECT f.flight_id,\
             f.from_location,\
             f.to_location,\
             COUNT(flight_departure_date) AS No_of_Services, \
  AVG(price) AS Average_Price\
             \
FROM air_flight f JOIN air_flight_details a\
ON f.flight_id = a.flight_id\
group by f.flight_id,\
             f.from_location,\
             f.to_location\
HAVING AVG(price) >=all(\
SELECT AVG(price) FROM air_flight_details) \
order by average_price ASC;\
\
AIRLINE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM QUESTIONS\
\
           Flights DB Solutions		\
									\
1. Display passenger name who has a 'e' as second letter in their name\
2. Display the name of the youngest passenger.\
3. Display the name of the passenger, date of birth and age.\
4. Display the number of flights leaving Kolkata.\
5. Display the name of city where the number of flights leaving and reaching is the same.\
6. Display the name of the city which has flight source but no destination.\
7. Display the dates on which flight 1 and 4 is flying.\
8. Display the number of passenger in each flight. Use column alias \'ecPassCount\'ee.\
9. Display the name and date of birth of passengers who are senior citizen (age>=60).\
10. Display the booking id having the highest number of passengers.\
11. Display the booking id (ticket) and the total cost for the booking. Use column alias \'ecTotal Fare\'ee.\
12. Display the booking id (ticket) and the total cost for the booking. Use column alias \'ecTotal Fare\'ee. Consider giving a rebate of 50% to senior citizen (age>=60).\
13. Display the city receiving the maximum number of flights.\
14. Display the passenger\'eds name having more than 1 booking.\
15. Display flightid with no of booking.\
16. Display the passenger (name only) who booked ticket on the day of flight for flight no 1.\
17. Display flights having the same source and destination.\
18. Display the record in the following format. Column alias\
\'ecBooking Summary\'ee\
Hints:\
\'ec Ticket No:1 Flight id: 1 Total Passengers :3 Total Fare:6000\'ee\
\'ecTicket No:2 Flight id: 3 Total Passengers :1 Total Fare :2500\'ee\
19. Flight No: 2 have been delayed for 4 hrs due to fog. Display flight id , flight date and a new column \'ecflight new date\'ee, which displays the new timing.\
20. Display passenger name , date of birth sorted by the month of birth .(Jan ? Dec).\
\
\
\
\
1)  select passname from passenger where passname like '_e%';\
\
\
2) select passname from passenger where passdob = (select max	(passdob) from passenger);\
\
\
3) select passname, passdob, (year(current_date) - year(passdob)) age from passenger;\
\
\
4) select count(flightsource) from flight group by flightsource having flightsource = "kol";\
\
\
5) select flightsource from flight a group by flightsource having count(flightsource) = (select count(flightdest) from flight where flightdest = a.flightsource);\
\
\
6) select flightsource from flight where flightsource not in (select flightdest from flight);\
\
\
7) select flightdate from flight where flightid in (1,4);\
\
\
8) select c.flightid, count(passid) from booking_details a join booking b on(a.bookingid = b.bookingid) right outer join flight c on(b.flightid = c.flightid) group by flightid;\
\
\
9) select passname, passdob from passenger having (year(current_date) - year(passdob)) > 60;\
\
\
10) select bookingid from booking_details group by bookingid having count(passid) = (select max(c) from(select count(passid) c from booking_details group by bookingid)t);\
\
\
11) select bookingid, sum(ticketcost) "Total Fare" from booking a join flight b\
on(a.flightid = b.flightid) group by bookingid;\
\
\
12) select a.bookingid, case when (year(current_date) - year(d.passdob))>60 then ticketcost = ticketcost/2 else sum(ticketcost) end "Total Fare" from booking a join flight b on(a.flightid = b.flightid) join booking_details c on(a.bookingid = c.bookingid) join passenger d on(c.passid = d.passid) group by bookingid;\
\
\
13) select flightdest City,count(flightdest) No_of_flights from flight group by flightdest\
having count(flightdest) = (select max(c) from (select count(flightdest) c from flight group by flightdest)t);\
\
\
14) select passname from passenger a join booking_details b on(a.passid = b.passid)\
group by b.passid having count(b.passid)>1;\
\
\
\
15) select a.flightid, count(a.flightid) No_of_bookings from booking a join flight b \
on(a.flightid = b.flightid) group by flightid;\
\
\
16) select passname from passenger a join booking_details b on(a.passid = b.passid)\
join booking c on(b.bookingid = c.bookingid)\
join flight d on(c.flightid = d.flightid)\
where d.flightdate = c.bookdate;\
\
17) select flightid from flight where flightsource = flightdest;\
\
\
18) \
\
\
19) select flightid, flightdate, adddate(flightdate,4) "Flight_new_date" from flight;\
Note: it should be 4days delay not 4hrs delay.\
\
\
20) select passname, passdob from passenger order by month(passdob);\
\
HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM\
\
--Q1:Retrieve  the doctor name who are born in the month of 'september'[female doctor]\
\
select doctor_name from doctor_master where DATEPART(MONTH,dob)=9 and gender='F'\
\
--Q2:Retrieve the details of female doctor who's name starts with 'A' and phone number starting with '9'\
\
select * from doctor_master where gender='F' and doctor_name like 'A%' and phone like '9%'\
\
--Q3:Count the doctors whose inpatient and outpatient fees is between 100 and 300..[include 100 and 300 also]\
\
select COUNT(doctor_id) from doctor_fees_master where fees_for_in_patients between 100 and 300 or fees_for_out_patients between 100 and 300\
\
\
--Q4: write a query to find the doctor name doctor number and fees for doctor who got higher fees from inpatients than that mentioned in doctor fees master\
\
select dm.doctor_id,dm.doctor_name,fdin.doctor_fees from doctor_master dm,fees_details_for_in_patients fdin where dm.doctor_id in( select dfm.doctor_id from doctor_fees_master dfm,fees_details_for_in_patients fdin where fdin.doctor_id=dfm.doctor_id and fdin.doctor_fees>dfm.fees_for_in_patients) and dm.doctor_id=fdin.doctor_id\
\
\
\
/* Q5: Display room number, room type, room description, no of beds, rent per day for rooms\
which has max number of beds\
[use table alias\
RoomMaster-rm\
Room_Rate_Master-rrm\
\
don't use column alias]*/\
\
select rm.RoomId, RoomType, RoomDescription, Number_Of_Beds, Rent_Per_Day from RoomMaster as rm join Room_Rate_Master as rrm on rm.RoomId=rrm.RoomId and Number_Of_Beds in (select MAX(Number_Of_Beds) from RoomMaster)\
\
/*Q6: display doctor number, doctor name, gender, total amount paid by In_Patient, total amount paid by In_Patient,\
sub_total amount paid by In&Out Patient for each doctor for a treatment where sub_total amount paid by In&Out Patient\
is minimum\
[use table alias \
DoctorMaster-dm\
Fees_details_for_In_Patients-fdin\
Fees_details_for_Out_Patients-fdout\
\
use column alias \
sub_total amount paid by In&Out Patient-AmountTotal*/\
\
select Top 1 dm.DoctorID, DoctorName, Gender, fdin.TotalAmount, fdout.TotalAmount, fdin.TotalAmount+fdout.TotalAmount as AmountTotal \
from DoctorMaster as dm join Fees_Details_for_In_Patients as fdin\
on dm.DoctorID=fdin.DoctorID \
join Fees_Details_for_Out_Patients as fdout on dm.DoctorID=fdout.DoctorID \
order by fdin.TotalAmount+fdout.TotalAmount\
\
\
HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 2\
\
1) Display the patient_id, patient_name , phone number, ( if phone number is not there display address) for the people who are staying more then 10 days.\
2)  Display the patient_id, patient_name, phone number( +91-999-999-9999 format) , type_of_ailment .\
    type of ailement is decided with the number of days stay in hospital.\
    if stay <=5   ---- Minor\
    if stay >5 and <=15 days ----Medium\
    if stay >15 days ---- Major\
3) Display the doctor_id and doctor name who is treating maximum patients.\
4) Display the patients who were admitted in the month of january.\
5) Display the patient_id and patient_name who paid more then once.\
6) Display the doctor_id, doctor_name and count of patients. Display the data in descending order of the cont_of_patients.\
7) Display the room_no, room_type which are allocated more then once.\
8) Display the room_no, room_type which are allocated more then once to the same patient.\
9) display the patient_id,patient_name, doctor_id, doctor_name, room_id, room_type, adm_date, bill_id, amount . Amount should be rounded of.\
10) Display the patient_id, patient_name, billid, amount. Amount should be rounded of to single place of decimal.\
11) Display the room_no which was never allocated to any patient.\
12) Display the the doctors_id who never treated any patients.\
13) The depatment which are having the maximum number of doctors.\
14) Count the number of male and female patients.\
15) Count the %age of male and female\
  \
 MALE 20% FEMALE 80%\
   \
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
\
\
\
\
 * from room_allocation;\
select * from patient_master;\
select * from doctor_master;\
select * from room_master;\
\
\
\
/* 1: Display the patient_id, patient_name , phone number, \
( if phone number is not there display address) for the people who are staying more then 10 days.*/\
select p.pid,name,phoneno from patient_master p,room_allocation r where p.pid=r.pid and (release_date-adm_date)>10;\
\
\
/* 2:Display the patient_id, patient_name, phone number( +91-999-999-9999 format) , type_of_ailment .\
    type of ailement is decided with the number of days stay in hospital.\
    if stay <=5   ---- Minor\
    if stay >5 and <=15 days ----Medium\
    if stay >15 days ---- Major */\
   \
select pid,name,phoneno\
from patient_master;\
select pid,sum(datediff(release_date,adm_date))\
from room_allocation\
group by pid;\
\
select p.pid,p.name,concat('+91-', substr(p.phoneno,1,3),'-',substr(p.phoneno,4,3),'-',substr(p.phoneno,7)) as 'Phone No',\
                                case\
                                    when t.count<=5 or t.count is null then 'Minor'\
                                    when t.count>5 and t.count<=15 then 'Medium'\
                                    else 'Major'\
                                end\
from patient_master p left outer join (   select pid,sum(datediff(release_date,adm_date)) as 'count'\
                        from room_allocation\
                        group by pid\
                    )t on p.pid=t.pid;\
\
\
 \
   \
   select * from patient_master;\
    /*   9123456789   */\
    select concat('+91-', substr(phoneno,1,3),'-',substr(phoneno,4,3),'-',substr(phoneno,7))\
    from patient_master;\
  \
  \
      \
    \
    \
/* 3:Display the doctor_id and doctor name who is treating maximum patients. */    \
select distinct d.doctorid,doctorname from doctor_master d,patient_master p where p.doctorid=d.doctorid and d.doctorid=(\
select doctorid from patient_master group by doctorid having count(*)=(\
select max(c) from(\
select count(*)c from patient_master group by doctorid\
)a\
)\
);\
\
\
\
/* 4:Display the patients who were admitted in the month of january.*/\
select r.pid,p.name from room_allocation r,patient_master p where p.pid=r.pid and adm_date like '%-12-%';\
\
\
/* 5:Display the patient_id and patient_name who paid more then once.*/\
select distinct p.pid,p.name from patient_master p,bill_payment b where p.pid=b.pid and b.pid=(\
select pid from bill_payment group by pid having count(*)>1);\
\
\
/* 6:Display the doctor_id, doctor_name and count of patients. \
Display the data in descending order of the cont_of_patients. */\
select d.doctorid,d.doctorname,count(*) Count_no_patients \
from patient_master p,doctor_master d where p.doctorid=d.doctorid group by p.doctorid asc;\
\
\
/* 7: Display the room_no, room_type which are allocated more then once.*/\
select room_no,room_type from room_master where room_no=\
(select room_no from room_allocation group by room_no having count(*)>1);\
\
\
/*8:Display the room_no, room_type which are allocated more then once to the same patient. */\
\
insert into room_allocation values('R0003','P0005','12-6-22','12-6-24');\
 select * from room_allocation;\
 select * from room_master;\
 \
 \
select distinct a.room_no,m.room_type\
from room_allocation a,room_master m\
where a.room_no in\
             (select room_no \
               from room_allocation\
                group by pid\
               having count(*)>1) and a.room_no=m.room_no;\
\
\
                \
 /* 9: display the patient_id,patient_name, doctor_id, doctor_name, room_id, room_type, adm_date, bill_id, amount . \
 Amount should be rounded of.*/\
select distinct p.pid,p.name,d.doctorid,d.doctorname,r.room_no,r.room_type,a.adm_date,b.billid,ROUND(amount,0) as Amount\
from patient_master p,doctor_master d,room_master r,room_allocation a,bill_payment b\
where b.pid=p.pid and d.doctorid=p.doctorid and p.pid=a.pid and r.room_no=a.room_no;\
\
\
/* 10: Display the patient_id, patient_name, billid, amount. \
Amount should be rounded of to single place of decimal.*/\
select p.pid,name,billid,ROUND(amount,1)\
from patient_master p,bill_payment b\
where p.pid=b.pid;\
\
/* 11: Display the room_no which was never allocated to any patient.*/\
select room_no from room_master where room_no not in(\
select r.room_no from room_allocation r,patient_master m where r.pid=m.pid group by room_no);\
\
/* 12: Display the the doctors_id who never treated any patients.*/\
select doctorid from doctor_master where doctorid not in(\
select p.doctorid from patient_master p,doctor_master d where d.doctorid=p.doctorid group by pid);\
\
/* 13:The depatment which are having the maximum number of doctors.*/\
select dept from doctor_master group by dept having count(*)=(\
select max(c) from(\
select count(*)c from doctor_master group by dept)a\
);\
\
\
/* 14:  Count the number of male and female patients.*/\
select gender,count(*) as count from patient_master group by gender;\
select count(*) as F from patient_master group by gender having gender="F";\
select count(*) as F from patient_master group by gender having gender="M";\
\
/* 15:Count the %age of male and female MALE 20% FEMALE 80%*/\
select * from patient_master;\
 select gender,round((sum(age)/s.sm)*100) as '%age'\
 from patient_master,(select sum(age) as sm from patient_master)s\
 group by gender;\
 \
 \
select gender,concat('%',cast(round((sum(age)/t.sm)*100) as char))\
from patient_master,(   select sum(age) as sm\
                        from patient_master\
                    )t\
group by gender;\
\
HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 3\
\
3.Display The patient Name whose Age is 20         \
   select patientid ,patientname from patient_master where datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth) >20;\
 \
 \
4.Display The Cardiologist details\
   Select doctorid ,doctorname from doctor_master where specialist ="cardiologist"; \
 \
 \
5.Display The RoomId where the rent per day is > 200\
  Select roomid from roomratemaster where roomrentperday>200;\
 \
6.Display the patients who visited Today\
  select patientid ,patientname from patient_master where dateofregistration=current_date();\
 \
7.Display the Patients Who is suffering from ASTHMA\
   select patientid from patientdetails where disease="ASthma";\
 \
8.Display The in-patient Id who is in the hospital for more than 3 days\
   SELECT patientid FROM hmsdb.feesdetailsforinpatients where noofdays>=3;\
 \
9.Display The patient Name whose Age is greater than 20 and less than 50\
   select patientid ,patientname from patient_master where (datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth)/365) >20 \
   AND (datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth)/365) <50 ;\
 \
10.Display the doctors  id who get the fees for inpatient  rs 250  and fees greater than rs 400\
    SELECT doctorid FROM doctorfeesmaster where fessforinpatients>=250 and fessforinpatients<400 ; \
\
11.DISPLAY  DOCTOR ID,NAME,SPECILIST, FEES FOR INPATIENT, OUT PATIENT BY JOINING DOCTOR  MASTER AND DOCTOR FEES MASTER\
    SELECT b.doctorid,b.doctorname,b.specialist,a.fessforinpatients,a.feesforoutpatients FROM doctorfeesmaster a join doctor_master b on a.doctorid=b.doctorid;            \
 \
12.DISPLAY THE ROOMID,ROOM TYPE,NUMBER OF BEDS, ROOM DESCRIPTION,ROOM RENT PER DAY BY USING ANSI JOIN\
    SELECT roomid,roomtype,numberofbeds,roomdescription FROM roommaster;            \
 \
13.DISPLAY THE OUT PATIENT DETAILS LIKE PATIENT NAME, PATIENT ADDRESS 1,PATIENT ADDRESS 2, DATE OF BITH,PHONE,SEX,BLOOD GROUP,AGE,SYMPTOM,DISEASE,TREATMENT \
   select a.patientname,a.patientaddress1,a.patientaddress2,a.dateofbirth,\
   a.sex,a.bloodgroup,floor(datediff(current_date(),a.dateofbirth)/365) "AGE",b.symptoms,b.disease,b.treatment \
   from patient_master a join patientdetails b on a.patientid=b.patientid;\
             \
14.DISPLAY THE PATIENT NAME AND DOCTOR NAME FROM FEES DETAILS FOR OUT PATIENT WHERE THE TOTAL AMOUNT PAID BY THE PATIENT IS RS 4000 AND RS 500\
      select a.patientname,c.doctorname from patient_master a join \
    feesdetailsforoutpatients b on a.patientid=b.patientid join doctor_master c \
    on b.doctorid=c.doctorid where b.totalamount=4000 or b.totalamount=500;        \
 \
 \
15.DISPLAY THE PATIENT DETAILS WHOSE NAME STARTS WITH  S\
SELECT * FROM patient_master where patientname like "S%";\
 \
16.DISPLAY THE PATIENT DETAILS WHOSE NAME STARTS WITH A,S\
      SELECT * FROM patient_master where patientname like "S%" or patientname like "A%";          \
 \
17.DISPLAY THE PATIENT DETAILS WHOSE NAME DOES NOT STARTS WITH A,S\
SELECT * FROM patient_master where patientname not like "S%" and patientname not like "A%";    \
                \
18.DISPLAY THE PATIENT WHO BORN IN SAME MONTH\
            \
 \
19.DISPLAY THE PATIENT DETAILS WHO VISITED THE HOSPITAL IN EXACTLY ONE YEAR BEFORE THIS DATE\
    SELECT * FROM patientdetails where datediff(current_date(),dateofvisit)<=365 ;            \
                \
20.DISPLAY THE PATIENT DETAILS WHO VISITED THE HOSPITAL IN EXACTLY ONE MONTH BEFORE THIS DATE\
   SELECT * FROM patientdetails where (extract(month from current_date())-extract(month from dateofvisit))<=1 ;\
 \
22.Display the Doctor details who get the highest fees for out patient\
   select doctorid from feesdetailsforoutpatients where doctorfees=(select max(doctorfees) from feesdetailsforoutpatients);\
 \
23.Display the doctor details who get the lowest fees for in patient\
   select doctorid from feesdetailsforinpatients where doctorfees=(select min(doctorfees) from feesdetailsforinpatients);\
\
24.Display the doctor details who get the highest sum of fees for both out and in patient\
 select a.doctorid from feesdetailsforinpatients a join \
feesdetailsforoutpatients b on a.doctorid=b.doctorid where (a.doctorfees+b.doctorfees)=\
(select max(c.doc_fees) from (select i.doctorid as id,(i.doctorfees+o.doctorfees) as doc_fees from \
feesdetailsforinpatients i join feesdetailsforoutpatients o on i.doctorid=o.doctorid)c);    \
\
                            \
25.Display the doctor details who get the lowest average of fees for both out and in patient\
 select a.doctorid from feesdetailsforinpatients a join \
feesdetailsforoutpatients b on a.doctorid=b.doctorid where ((a.doctorfees+b.doctorfees)/2)=\
(select min(c.doc_fees) from (select i.doctorid as id,((i.doctorfees+o.doctorfees)/2) as doc_fees from \
feesdetailsforinpatients i join feesdetailsforoutpatients o on i.doctorid=o.doctorid)c);\
 \
26.Display the room details which has the highest room rent per day\
 SELECT * FROM roomratemaster where roomrentperday=(select max(roomrentperday) from roomratemaster);\
 \
27.Display The number of patients for each doctor who visited today\
 SELECT doctorid,count(patientid) from patientdetails where dateofvisit=current_date() group by doctorid;\
 \
28.Display the doctor who visited more number of patients on Today\
   select a.id from (SELECT doctorid as id,count(doctorid) as ptid from patientdetails where dateofvisit=current_date()\
   group by doctorid ) a where a.ptid=(select max(c.b) from (select dateofvisit,doctorid,  \
   count(doctorid) b from patientdetails group by doctorid having dateofvisit=current_date()) c);\
\
29.Display the in patient  details who paid high \
  SELECT * FROM feesdetailsforinpatients where totalamount=(select max(totalamount) from feesdetailsforinpatients) ;\
 \
30.Display The top 5 doctors who are cardiologiest\
 \
 \
31.Display the oldest doctor in the hospital\
   SELECT * FROM doctor_master where datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth)=\
(select max(a.b) from(select datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth) as b from doctor_master) a);    \
\
32.Display the youngest patient in the hospital\
  SELECT * FROM patient_master where datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth)=\
(select min(a.b) from(select datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth) as b from patient_master) a);\
\
33.Display the number of patient who have b+ and a+ blood group\
   SELECT count(*) FROM patient_master where bloodgroup="b+" or bloodgroup="a+";\
 \
34.Display the doctor name and total fees he/she get for each patient\
   select a.doctorid,b.doctorname,ifnull(a.doctorfees,0)+ifnull(c.doctorfees,0) from \
feesdetailsforinpatients a join doctor_master b on a.doctorid=b.doctorid\
left join feesdetailsforoutpatients c on a.doctorid=c.doctorid  \
union\
select a.doctorid,b.doctorname,ifnull(a.doctorfees,0)+ifnull(c.doctorfees,0) \
from feesdetailsforoutpatients a join doctor_master b \
on a.doctorid=b.doctorid left join feesdetailsforinpatients c\
on a.doctorid=c.doctorid \
				or\
select a.PatientID,a.DoctorID,sum(a.DoctorFees) from \
(select PatientID,DoctorID,DoctorFees from feesdetailsforinpatients\
group by PatientID,DoctorID\
union\
select PatientID,DoctorID,DoctorFees from feesdetailsforoutpatients\
group by PatientID,DoctorID) as a\
group by a.PatientID,a.DoctorID;\
\
 \
35.Display The Oldest female doctor in Hospital\
 SELECT * FROM doctor_master where datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth)=\
(select max(a.b) from(select datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth) as b from doctor_master where gender="F") a);    \
 \
36.Display The Doctorname, specialist,Gender,age  from doctor details\
 SELECT Doctorname, specialist,Gender,floor(datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth)/365) "AGE" FROM doctor_master;\
 \
37.Display the room details which has maximum number of beds and rent per day of that room\
 SELECT a.roomid,b.roomrentperday FROM roommaster a join roomratemaster b \
on a.roomid=b.roomid where numberofbeds=\
(select max(numberofbeds) from roommaster);\
 \
38.Display the doctor details whose address2 is empty\
 SELECT * FROM hmsdb.doctor_master where isnull(doctoraddress2);\
 \
39.Display the number of patients discharged in the month of november\
 SELECT * FROM patientdetails where dateofdischarge like "%-11-%";\
 \
40.Display the number of patients visited last year\
 SELECT count(*) FROM patientdetails where \
(extract(year from current_date())-extract(year from dateofdischarge))<=1;\
\
41.Display out patient who paid maximum amount in the month of november and the doctor incharge\
 select patientid from feesdetailsforoutpatients\
where totalamount=\
(SELECT max(c.totalamount) FROM feesdetailsforoutpatients c join patientdetails d on \
c.patientid=d.patientid where d.dateofdischarge like "%-10-%");\
\
42.Display The number of in patients admitted yesterday\
 select count(patientid) from patientdetails \
where datediff(current_date(),dateofvisit)=1;\
 \
43.Display the room details which got the minimum rent per day\
   sELECT * FROM roomratemaster where roomrentperday=\
(select min(roomrentperday) from hmsdb.roomratemaster) ;\
 \
44.Display the number of patients who have same symptoms and got different treatments\
   select count(*) from patientdetails a join patientdetails b on a.patientid!=b.patientid \
where a.symptoms=b.symptoms and a.treatment!=b.treatment;\
 \
45.Display the male doctor details who celebrated their birth day last month\
 SELECT * FROM doctor_master where gender="m" and (extract(month from current_date())-extract(month from dateofbirth))=1;\
 \
49.Display the patient detalis who visited the hospital from 1/9/2008 to till date \
 SELECT * FROM patientdetails where dateofvisit between "2008-09-01" and current_date();\
 \
50.Display The number of doctors whose age is greated than 50\
SELECT * FROM doctor_master where (datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth)/365)>50;\
 \
51.Display The male patient details whose second letter is 'A'\
  SELECT * FROM patient_master where sex="M" and patientname like "_a%";\
\
52.Display The male patient details whose second and last letter is 'A'\
 SELECT * FROM hmsdb.patient_master where sex="M" and patientname like "_a%a";\
 \
53.Display the number of beds in the room  where the in patient 'Akilan' is admitted\
 SELECT c.numberofbeds FROM patient_master a join patientdetails b on \
a.patientid=b.patientid join roommaster c on b.roomid=c.roomid\
where a.patientname="akilan" and b.patienttype="in";\
\
54.Display the male patient who have the symptoms of ashma and getting the treatment by DR Ram \
 SELECT b.doctorname,a.patientid FROM hmsdb.patientdetails a JOIN hmsdb.doctor_master b \
on a.doctorid=b.doctorid where a.disease="asthma" and b.doctorname="Saurav Sarkar"\
\
55.Display the sum of total amount fees for an out patient of each doctor where the sum of total amount fees is > than 50000\
 select a.id,a.b from (SELECT doctorid as id,sum(totalamount) as b from feesdetailsforoutpatients group by doctorid)a where a.b>1500 ;\
 \
56.Display the patient details who were in the AC room\
 SELECT * FROM patientdetails a join roommaster b on a.roomid=b.roomid where b.roomtype="AC";\
 \
57.Display the patient details who were in the AC room from 8/8/2008 to 9/9/2008\
    SELECT * FROM patientdetails a join roommaster b where b.roomtype="AC" and \
   a.dateofdischarge between "2012-10-01" and "2012-11-01" and dateofvisit \
    between"2012-10-01" and "2012-11-01" ;\
\
58.Display the patient name,patient type, doctor name,roomtype,room description, duration(difference between date of visit and date of discharge,symptom,treatment,disease)\
    SELECT a.patientname,b.patienttype,c.doctorname,d.roomtype,d.roomdescription,\
datediff(dateofvisit,dateofdischarge),b.symptoms,b.treatment,b.disease\
FROM patient_master a join patientdetails b \
on a.patientid=b.patientid join doctor_master c on b.doctorid=c.doctorid join \
roommaster d on b.roomid=d.roomid;\
 \
59.Display the patient who was in the hospital for more number of days\
    SELECT * FROM patientdetails where datediff(dateofdischarge,dateofvisit)=\
(select max(datediff(dateofdischarge,dateofvisit)) from patientdetails);\
 \
60.Display the male patient who got treatment from a male doctor\
   select * from patient_master a join patientdetails b on a.patientid=b.patientid \
   join doctor_master c on b.doctorid=c.doctorid where a.sex="M" and c.gender="M";\
 \
61.Display the youngest doctor who is specialized in dermatology\
   SELECT * FROM doctor_master where datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth)=\
(select min(a.b) from(select datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth) as b from \
doctor_master where specialist="dermatology") a);    \
 \
 \
62.Display the room description where the room rent per day =500\
   SELECT * FROM hmsdb.roommaster a join roomratemaster b on a.roomid=b.roomid where b.roomrentperday="500";\
 \
63.Display the number of patients in the room where the rent per day = 500\
   SELECT count(c.patientid) FROM hmsdb.roommaster a join roomratemaster b on a.roomid=b.roomid \
join hmsdb.patientdetails c on c.roomid=a.roomid where b.roomrentperday="500" ; \
\
64.Display the younger female doctor whose name does not starts with 'A' and not a  'pediatrician'\
   SELECT * FROM doctor_master where datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth)=\
(select min(a.b) from(select datediff(current_date(),dateofbirth) as b from \
doctor_master where gender="F" and specialist!="pediatrician" and \
doctorname not like "A%") a);   \
\
65.Display the female out patients whose age is below 30 and paid the total amount > 5000\
 SELECT * FROM feesdetailsforoutpatients a join patient_master b on\
a.patientid=b.patientid where (datediff(current_date(),b.dateofbirth)/365)<30 \
and b.sex="F" and a.totalamount>5000;\
\
 \
66.Display the male doctor whose sum of in patient and out patient fees is minimum\
   select * from doctorfeesmaster a join doctor_master b on a.doctorid=b.doctorid \
where a.FeesforOutPatients+a.FeesforInPatients=\
(SELECT min(FeesforOutPatients+FeesforInPatients)\
FROM doctorfeesmaster) and b.gender="M" ; \
\
 \
67.Display the male patient details in room number 3 and his age is less than 12\
 select * from patient_master a join patientdetails b on a.patientid=b.patientid\
where datediff(current_date(),a.dateofbirth)/365<25 and b.roomid=3 and a.sex="M";\
 \
 \
68.Display the number of patients discharged between 31/1/2008 to 31/3/2008 who have the symptoms of asthma\
 select count(*) from patientdetails where dateofdischarge between "2012-10-01" and "2012-11-01";\
 \
69.Display the doctor who gets second highest fees for out patients in the hospital\
   select * from doctorfeesmaster where FeesforOutPatients=\
(select max(FeesforOutPatients) from doctorfeesmaster where FeesforOutPatients!=\
(select max(FeesforOutPatients) from doctorfeesmaster));\
 \
70.Display the in patient who pays second highest amount in the hospital\
 select * from feesdetailsforinpatients where totalamount=\
(select max(totalamount) from feesdetailsforinpatients where totalamount!=\
(select max(totalamount) from feesdetailsforinpatients));\
 \
71.Display the doctor who get the fees higher from the in patient than the amount specied in the fees master\
  SELECT * FROM hmsdb.feesdetailsforinpatients a join hmsdb.doctorfeesmaster b \
on a.doctorid=b.doctorid where a.doctorfees>b.feesforinpatients;\
 \
72.Display the female in-patient who is in the AC room for a long time \
 select * FROM patient_master a join feesdetailsforinpatients b\
on a.patientid=b.patientid join roommaster c on c.roomid=b.roomid\
where a.sex="f" and c.roomtype="ac" and b.noofdays=(select max(noofdays) \
from feesdetailsforinpatients);\
 \
73.Display the female patient who is not suffering from ashma\
    SELECT * FROM hmsdb.patientdetails a join hmsdb.patient_master \
b on a.patientid=b.patientid\
where a.disease!="asthma" and b.sex="f";\
 \
74.Display the number of patients who are not yet discharged\
  SELECT * FROM hmsdb.patientdetails where current_date()<dateofdischarge;\
 \
75.Display the number of female patients discharged last month\
  SELECT count(*) FROM hmsdb.patientdetails a join hmsdb.patient_master b\
on a.patientid=b.patientid\
where b.sex="f" and (extract(month from current_date())-extract(month from a.dateofvisit))=1 and \
(extract(year from current_date())=extract(year from a.dateofvisit));\
 \
76.Display the in patient details who visited DR. Ram for the treatment 'Chronic treatment'\
   SELECT * FROM hmsdb.patientdetails a join hmsdb.doctor_master b on a.doctorid=b.doctorid\
where a.patienttype="in" and b.doctorname="ram" and a.treatment="chronic";\
 \
77.Find out the average total amount paid by the out patients who visited DR.Raju\
  select b.patientid,avg(b.totalamount) from \
hmsdb.doctor_master a join hmsdb.feesdetailsforoutpatients b\
on a.doctorid=b.doctorid where a.doctorname="saurav sarkar" group by a.doctorname;\
\
 \
78.Display the patient details who visited DR.Raju for the treatment of  'Exercise and physical activity' from  1/1/2008 to 2/2/2008\
   SELECT * FROM hmsdb.patientdetails a join hmsdb.doctor_master b on a.doctorid=b.doctorid\
where b.doctorname="saurav sarkar" and a.treatment="Surgery" and dateofvisit between "2013-10-01" and "2013-11-01";\
  \
79.Display the patient details, who dint give the phone number\
   select * from patient_master where phone is null;\
 \
80.How many patients paid 10000 to 20000 for the treatment\
        select a.doctorid,b.doctorname,(ifnull(a.totalamount,0)+ifnull(c.totalamount,0)) from \
feesdetailsforinpatients a join doctor_master b on a.doctorid=b.doctorid\
left join feesdetailsforoutpatients c on a.doctorid=c.doctorid  \
where (ifnull(a.totalamount,0)+ifnull(c.totalamount,0)) between 10000 and 20000\
union\
select a.doctorid,b.doctorname,(ifnull(a.totalamount,0)+ifnull(c.totalamount,0)) \
from feesdetailsforoutpatients a join doctor_master b \
on a.doctorid=b.doctorid left join feesdetailsforinpatients c\
on a.doctorid=c.doctorid \
where (ifnull(a.totalamount,0)+ifnull(c.totalamount,0)) between 10000 and 20000\
(check)\
\
81.Display the patients whose age is below 20 and suffering from Psoriasis\
 SELECT * FROM hmsdb.patient_master a join hmsdb.patientdetails b on a.patientid=b.patientid \
where (year(current_date())-year(a.dateofbirth))<20 and b.disease="Psoriasis";\
 \
82.Display the doctor details who celebrated their birthday with in this week\
   select p.id from(select doctorid id,replace(dateofbirth,extract(year from dateofbirth),'2013') l \
  from doctor_master)p where weekofyear(p.l)=weekofyear(current_date);\
\
83.Display the Doctors details whose name contains exactly 2 letters 'A'\
   select * from doctor_master where doctorname like "%a%a%" and doctorname not like "%a%a%a%";\
 \
84.Display the doctors who were born on the last date of a month\
   select * from doctor_master where dateofbirth=last_day(dateofbirth) ;\
 \
85.Display The Patient whose name contains more than one word\
   select * from doctor_master where doctorname like "% %";\
 \
86.Display the number of patients checked by each doctor\
   select doctorid, count(patientid) from patientdetails group by doctorid; \
 \
90.Display the doctor who checked most patients\
   select a.id from (SELECT doctorid as id,count(doctorid) as ptid from patientdetails\
group by doctorid ) a where a.ptid=(select max(c.b) from (select dateofvisit,doctorid,  \
count(doctorid) b from patientdetails group by doctorid) c);\
\
91.Display the out patient details who paid the same fees\
  SELECT * FROM hmsdb.feesdetailsforoutpatients a join hmsdb.feesdetailsforoutpatients b \
where a.doctorfees=b.doctorfees and a.patientid!=b.patientid \
 \
92.Display number of the out patient details who paid the same fees\
   SELECT count(a.doctorfees),a.doctorfees j FROM feesdetailsforoutpatients a \
 join feesdetailsforoutpatients b on a.patientid!=b.patientid\
where a.doctorfees=b.doctorfees group by a.doctorfees \
\
LIBRARY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM\
\
\
SIMPLE QUESTIONS ANSWERS:\
\
1)select MEMBER_ID,MEMBER_NAME,MEMBERSHIP_STATUS from \
lms_members where MEMBERSHIP_STATUS='permanent';\
\
\
2)select i.book_code, d.publication, d.price, s.supplier_name from lms_book_issue i \
\
join lms_book_details d on(i.book_code=d.book_code) join lms_suppliers_details s on(s.supplier_id=d.supplier_id)\
\
group by i.book_code having count(i.book_code) = (select max(cnt) from ( select count(book_code) cnt \
from lms_book_issue group by book_code)t1);\
\
3)select m.MEMBER_ID,m.MEMBER_NAME from lms_book_issue i join lms_members m  on(i.member_id=m.member_id) \
where i.book_code='BL000002';\
\
4)select BOOK_CODE,BOOK_TITLE,AUTHOR from lms_book_details where author like 'P%';\
\
5)select count(*) No_of_Books from lms_book_details where category='JAVA';\
\
6)select CATEGORY, count(category) No_of_Books from lms_book_details group by category;\
\
\
7)select count(category) No_of_Books from lms_book_details where PUBLICATION='Prentice Hall';;\
\
\
8)select b.BOOK_CODE,b.BOOK_TITLE,i.DATE_ISSUE from lms_book_details b, lms_book_issue i \
where b.BOOK_CODE=i.BOOK_CODE and DATE_ISSUE = '2012-04-01';\
\
\
9)select MEMBER_ID,MEMBER_NAME,DATE_REGISTER,DATE_EXPIRE from lms_members where DATE_EXPIRE < '2013-04-30';\
\
\
10)select MEMBER_ID,MEMBER_NAME,DATE_REGISTER,MEMBERSHIP_STATUS from lms_members where DATE_REGISTER < '2012-03-01' \
&& MEMBERSHIP_STATUS='temporary';\
\
\
11)select MEMBER_ID,MEMBER_NAME,CITY from lms_members where CITY = 'delhi' || CITY = 'chennai';\
\
\
12)select concat(BOOK_TITLE ,' is written by ',AUTHOR ) BOOK_WRITTEN_BY from lms_book_details;\
\
13)select avg(price) AVERAGEPRICE from lms_book_details where CATEGORY = 'JAVA';\
\
14)select SUPPLIER_ID, SUPPLIER_NAME, EMAIL from lms_suppliers_details where EMAIL like '%gmail%';\
\
15)select SUPPLIER_ID, SUPPLIER_NAME, COALESCE( contact, email, ADDRESS) a from lms_suppliers_details;\
\
\
16)select SUPPLIER_ID,SUPPLIER_NAME,contact,if(contact,'yes','no') PHONENOAVAILABLE\
from lms_suppliers_details;\
\
17)select m.MEMBER_ID, m.MEMBER_NAME, m.CITY, m.MEMBERSHIP_STATUS from lms_members m \
\
join lms_book_issue b on(m.member_id = b.member_id) \
\
join lms_fine_details f on(b.fine_range = f.fine_range);\
\
\
\
AVERAGE QUESTIONS ANSWERS:\
\
1)select m.member_id,m.member_name,b.book_code,d.book_title from lms_members m\
\
join lms_book_issue b on(m.member_id = b.member_id)\
\
join lms_book_details d on(b.book_code = d.book_code);\
\
\
2)select count( book_code) No_of_books_available from lms_book_details\
\
where book_code not in( select book_code from lms_book_issue);\
\
3)select m.member_id, m.member_name, f.fine_range, f.fine_amount from lms_members m\
\
join lms_book_issue b on(m.member_id = b.member_id)\
\
join lms_fine_details f on(f.fine_range = b.fine_range) where f.fine_amount < 100;\
\
4)select BOOK_CODE, BOOK_TITLE, PUBLICATION, BOOK_EDITION, PRICE, PUBLISH_DATE from lms_book_details\
\
order by PUBLICATION, BOOK_EDITION;\
\
5)select BOOK_CODE, BOOK_TITLE, RACK_NUM from lms_book_details where RACK_NUM = 'A1' \
group by BOOK_TITLE;\
\
6)select m.member_id, m.member_name, b.DATE_RETURN, b.date_returned from lms_members m\
\
join lms_book_issue b on( m.member_id = b.member_id)\
where DATE_RETURNED > DATE_RETURN;\
\
7)select MEMBER_ID, MEMBER_NAME, DATE_REGISTER from lms_members \
where MEMBER_ID not in(select member_id from lms_book_issue);\
\
\
8)select m.member_id, m.member_name from lms_members m\
\
join lms_book_issue b on(m.member_id = b.member_id) \
where b.FINE_RANGE = 'R0';\
\
9)select m.member_id, m.member_name from lms_members m\
\
join lms_book_issue b on(m.member_id = b.member_id)\
\
where b.FINE_RANGE = 'R0' && year (b.date_return) = '2012';\
\
10)select b.BOOK_TITLE, s.SUPPLIER_ID from lms_suppliers_details s \
\
join lms_book_details b on(s.supplier_id = b.supplier_id)\
\
where b.author = 'Herbert Schildt' && b.book_edition = 5 && b.supplier_id = 'S01';\
\
11)select RACK_NUM, count(*) NO_OF_BOOKS from lms_book_details group by RACK_NUM;\
\
12)\
select i.BOOK_ISSUE_NO, m.MEMBER_NAME, m.DATE_REGISTER, m.DATE_EXPIRE, b.BOOK_TITLE, b.category,\
b.AUTHOR,\
 b.PRICE, i.DATE_ISSUE, i.DATE_RETURN, i.DATE_RETURNED, f.FINE_AMOUNT\
from lms_members m\
\
join lms_book_issue i on(m.member_id = i.member_id)\
\
join lms_book_details b on(i.book_code = b.book_code)\
\
join lms_fine_details f on(i.fine_range = f.fine_range);\
\
13)select BOOK_CODE, BOOK_TITLE, PUBLISH_DATE from lms_book_details where month(publish_date) = '12';\
\
14)select b.BOOK_CODE, b.BOOK_TITLE, s.SUPPLIER_NAME, max(b.PRICE) PRICE from lms_book_details b\
\
join lms_suppliers_details s on(b.supplier_id = s.supplier_id) group by s.supplier_name;\
\
15)select BOOK_CODE, BOOK_TITLE, PUBLICATION, PUBLISH_DATE from lms_book_details group by PUBLISH_DATE;\
\
\
COMPLEX QUESTIONS ANSWER:\
\
1)select b.BOOK_CODE, b.BOOK_TITLE, s.SUPPLIER_NAME from lms_book_details b \
\
join lms_suppliers_details s on(b.supplier_id = s.supplier_id) group by b.BOOK_TITLE\
\
having s.SUPPLIER_NAME = (select max(supplier_name) from lms_suppliers_details);\
\
2)select m.member_id, m.member_name , (3-count(i.member_id)) RemainingBooks from lms_members m\
\
join lms_book_issue i on(m.member_id = i.member_id) group by i.MEMBER_ID;\
\
3)\
select s.SUPPLIER_ID, s.SUPPLIER_NAME from lms_suppliers_details s\
\
join lms_book_details b on(s.supplier_id = b.supplier_id)\
\
where s.SUPPLIER_NAME = (select min(s.SUPPLIER_NAME) from lms_suppliers_details s\
\
join lms_book_details b on(s.supplier_id = b.supplier_id));\
\
\
\
LIBRARY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 2\
\
10)write a query to display member id,member name,city,registration date of the members who has to pay fine. Fine is calculated on the basis of date of return and actual returned date. Sort the result in desc order by city name\
\
\
ANSWER---------------\
SELECT M.MEMBER_ID, M.MEMBER_NAME, M.CITY, DATE(M.DATE_REGISTER) FROM LMS_MEMBERS M JOIN LMS_BOOK_ISSUE D ON M.MEMBER_ID = D.MEMBER_ID WHERE DATEDIFF(D.DATE_RETURNED, D.DATE_RETURN) > 0 GROUP BY D.MEMBER_ID;\
\
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
10)WRITE A QUERY to dislay suplier id, supplier name, address, contact, email address of the supliers who has supplied three or more books. sort the result based on supplier_id and then by supplier name.\
\
\
ANSWER---------------\
SELECT SD.* FROM LMS_SUPPLIERS_DETAILS SD JOIN LMS_BOOK_DETAILS BD ON SD.SUPPLIER_ID = BD.SUPPLIER_ID GROUP BY BD.SUPPLIER_ID HAVING COUNT(BD.BOOK_CODE) > 2;\
\
\
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
10)write a query to display book code, book title, category , author , publication and price of the books WHICH ARE ISSUED MULTILE TIMES (MORE THAN ONE TIME) SORT THE RESULT BASED ON BOOK TITLE.\
\
\
ANSWER---------------\
SELECT BD.BOOK_CODE, BD.BOOK_TITLE, BD.CATEGORY, BD.AUTHOR, BD.PUBLICATION, BD.PRICE FROM LMS_BOOK_DETAILS BD JOIN LMS_BOOK_ISSUE BI ON BD.BOOK_CODE = BI.BOOK_CODE GROUP BY BI.BOOK_CODE HAVING COUNT(BI.BOOK_ISSUE_NO) > 1;\
\
\
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
12.5) WRITE A QUERY To display the member id, member name,NUMBER OF BOKS ISSUED (as NO_OF_BOOKS )AND number of remaining books(as REMAINING_BOOKS) he/she can take with as alias "REMAINING_BOOKS".\
MEMBER CAN TAKE MAXIMUM 5 BOOKS SORT THE RESULT BASED ON NUMBER OF BOOKS ISSUED IN DESC ORDER\
\
\
ANSWER---------------\
SELECT M.MEMBER_ID, M.MEMBER_NAME, COUNT(I.BOOK_ISSUE_NO) NO_OF_BOOKS, (5-COUNT(I.BOOK_ISSUE_NO)) REMAINING_BOOKS FROM LMS_MEMBERS M JOIN LMS_BOOK_ISSUE I ON M.MEMBER_ID = I.MEMBER_ID GROUP BY I.MEMBER_ID ORDER BY COUNT(I.BOOK_ISSUE_NO) DESC;\
\
\
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
12.5)write a query to display suplier name, number of books supplied by the supplier (as NO_OF_BOOKS) \
and average price of the books (as AVG_PRICE) suplied by the suplier. also consider the supliers which never supplied any book \
(display 0 in such cases) sort the result based on number of books supplied by the supplier\
\
\
ANSWER---------------\
SELECT SD.SUPPLIER_NAME, COUNT(BD.BOOK_CODE) NO_OF_BOOKS, AVG(BD.PRICE) AVG_PRICE FROM LMS_SUPPLIERS_DETAILS SD LEFT OUTER JOIN LMS_BOOK_DETAILS BD ON SD.SUPPLIER_ID = BD.SUPPLIER_ID GROUP BY SD.SUPPLIER_ID ORDER BY COUNT(BD.BOOK_CODE);\
\
\
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
15)write a query to display supplier details (supplier id,supplier Name, address, contact and email) who has provided maximum and minimum number of books \
\
\
ANSWER---------------\
(SELECT S.*  FROM LMS_SUPPLIERS_DETAILS S JOIN LMS_BOOK_DETAILS B ON S.SUPPLIER_ID = B.SUPPLIER_ID WHERE S.SUPPLIER_NAME = (SELECT MAX(S.SUPPLIER_NAME) FROM LMS_SUPPLIERS_DETAILS S JOIN LMS_BOOK_DETAILS B ON S.SUPPLIER_ID = B.SUPPLIER_ID))\
UNION\
(SELECT S.*  FROM LMS_SUPPLIERS_DETAILS S JOIN LMS_BOOK_DETAILS B ON S.SUPPLIER_ID = B.SUPPLIER_ID WHERE S.SUPPLIER_NAME = (SELECT MIN(S.SUPPLIER_NAME) FROM LMS_SUPPLIERS_DETAILS S JOIN LMS_BOOK_DETAILS B ON S.SUPPLIER_ID = B.SUPPLIER_ID));\
\
\
LIBRARY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 3\
\
1.	Write a query to display movie names and number of times that movie is issued to customers. Incase movies are never issued to customers display number of times as 0. \
\
Display the details in sorted order based on number of times (in descending order)  and then by movie name (in ascending order). \
\
The Alias name for the number of movies issued is ISSUE_COUNT.\
SELECT movie_name, count(cid.movie_id)  ISSUE_COUNT\
 FROM movies_master mm LEFT JOIN customer_issue_details cid\
 ON mm.movie_id=cid.movie_id \
GROUP BY movie_name \
ORDER BY Issue_count DESC, movie_name;\
\
2.	Write a query to display id, name, age, contact no of customers whose age is greater than 25 and and who have registered in the year 2012.   Display contact no in the below format +91-XXX-XXX-XXXX example +91-987-678-3434 and use the alias name as "CONTACT_ISD". If the contact no is null then display as 'N/A'  Sort all the records in ascending order based on age and then by name.\
select customer_id,customer_name, age, coalesce(concat('+91-',substring(contact_no,1,3),'-', substring(contact_no,4,3), '-',substring(contact_no,7)),'N/A') CONTACT_ISD \
from customer_master \
where age>25 and substring(date_of_registration,1,4)=2012  \
                                                                (or )\
                                  extract ( year from date_of_registration)=2012;\
order by age asc, customer_name;\
\
3.	Write a query to display the movie category and number of movies in that category. Display records based on number of movies from higher to lower order  and then by movie category in ascending order.\
<br/>Hint: Use NO_OF_MOVIES as alias name for number of movies.\
SELECT movie_category,  count(movie_id)   NO_OF_MOVIES \
FROM movies_master\
 GROUP BY movie_category\
 order by no_of_movies desc, movie_category asc;\
\
4.	Write a query to display the number of customers having card with description \'ecGold card\'ee. <br/>Hint: Use CUSTOMER_COUNT as alias name for number of customers\
SELECT count(customer_id) CUSTOMER_COUNT \
FROM library_card_master lcm INNER JOIN customer_card_details ccd \
ON lcm.card_id=ccd.card_id \
WHERE description='Gold Card';\
\
5.	Write a query to display the customer id, customer name, year of registration,library card id, card issue date of all the customers who hold library card. Display the records sorted by customer name in descending order.\
<br> Use REGISTERED_YEAR as alias name for year of registration.\
SELECT c.customer_id, c.customer_name, extract(year from c.date_of_registration)  REGISTERED_YEAR, cd.card_id,cd.issue_date\
 FROM customer_master c join customer_card_details cd \
on c.customer_id=cd.customer_id \
ORDER BY  c.customer_name   DESC;\
\
6.	Write a query to display issue id, customer id, customer name for the customers who have paid fine and whose name starts with 'R'. Fine is calculated based on return date and actual date of return. If the date of actual return is after date of return then fine need to be paid by the customer.\
<br>\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on customer name.\
SELECT  issue_id ,cid.customer_id, customer_name\
 FROM customer_issue_details cid INNER JOIN customer_master cm\
 ON cid.customer_id=cm.customer_id\
 WHERE actual_date_of_return>return_date and customer_name like 'R%' \
order by customer_name;\
\
7.	Write a query to display customer id, customer name, card id, card description and card amount in dollars of customers who have taken movie on the same day the library card is registered.\
\
For Example Assume John registered a library card on 12th Jan 2013 and he took a movie on 12th Jan 2013 then display his details.\
 AMOUNT_DOLLAR = amount/52.42 and round it to zero decimal places and display as $Amount. Example Assume 500 is the amount then dollar value will be $10.\
Hint: Use AMOUNT_DOLLAR as alias name for amount in dollar.\
Display the records in ascending order based on customer name.\
SELECT ccd.customer_id, customer_name, ccd.card_id, description,concat('$',round(amount/52.42,0)) AMOUNT_DOLLAR \
FROM customer_master cm INNER JOIN customer_card_details ccd \
ON cm.customer_id=ccd.customer_id\
 INNER JOIN library_card_master lcm\
 ON ccd.card_id=lcm.card_id  INNER JOIN customer_issue_details cid \
ON cid.customer_id = cm.customer_id \
WHERE cm.date_of_registration=cid.issue_date \
order by customer_name;\
\
8.	Write a query to display the customer id, customer name, contact number and address of customers who have taken movies from library without library card and whose address ends with 'Nagar'.\
Display customer name in upper case. Hint: Use CUSTOMER_NAME as alias name for customer name. Display the details sorted in ascending order based on customer name.\
SELECT customer_id , upper(customer_name) CUSTOMER_NAME,contact_no,contact_address \
FROM customer_master \
WHERE customer_id NOT IN ( select customer_id from customer_card_details )\
 AND customer_id IN ( SELECT customer_id from customer_issue_details )\
 and contact_address like '%Nagar' \
order by customer_name ;\
	\
9.	Write a query to display the movie id, movie name, release year, director name of movies acted by the leadactor1 who acted maximum number of movies .Display the records sorted in ascending order based on movie name.\
select movie_id, movie_name, release_year, director_name  from movies_master \
where lead_actor_name1  in (\
select lead_actor_name1  \
from ( select lead_actor_name1, count(movie_id) ct \
from movies_master group by lead_actor_name1) t\
 where t.ct>=all(select count(movie_id) from movies_master group by lead_actor_name1)) \
order by movie_name;\
\
10.	 Write a query to display the customer name and number of movies issued to that customer sorted by customer name in ascending order.  If a customer has not  been issued with any movie then display 0. <br>Hint: Use MOVIE_COUNT as alias name for number of movies issued.\
SELECT customer_name, count(movie_id) MOVIE_COUNT \
FROM customer_master cm LEFT OUTER JOIN customer_issue_details cid \
ON cm.customer_id=cid.customer_id \
GROUP BY customer_name\
 ORDER BY customer_name;\
\
11.	Write a query to display serial number,issue id, customer id, customer name, movie id and movie name of all the videos that are issued and display in ascending order based on serial number.\
<br/>Serial number can be generated from the issue id , that is last two characters of issue id is the serial number.\
<br/>For Example Assume the issue id is I00005 then the serial number is 05\
<br/>Hint: Alias name for serial number is 'SERIAL_NO'<br/><br/><br>\
SELECT substring(issue_id,5,2) SERIAL_NO, issue_id, cid.customer_id,customer_name, mm.movie_id, movie_name\
 FROM customer_issue_details cid  INNER JOIN customer_master cm\
 ON cid.customer_id=cm.customer_id\
 INNER JOIN movies_master mm\
 ON cid.movie_id=mm.movie_id \
order by SERIAL_NO ASC;\
\
12.	Write a query to display the issue id,issue date, customer id, customer name and contact number for videos that are issued in the year 2013.Display the records in decending order based on issue date of the video.\
SELECT  issue_id,  issue_date, cid.customer_id, customer_name,contact_no\
 FROM customer_issue_details cid  INNER JOIN customer_master cm \
ON cid.customer_id=cm.customer_id \
where extract(year from issue_date)=2013 \
 order by issue_date DESC\
\
13.	Write a query to display movie id ,movie name and actor names of movies which are not issued to any customers.  <br> Actors Name to be displayed in the below format.LEAD_ACTOR_ONE space ambersant space LEAD_ACTOR_TWO.\
Example: Assume lead actor one's name is "Jack Tomson" and Lead actor two's name is "Maria" then Actors name will be "Jack Tomsom & Maria"Hint:Use ACTORS as alias name for actors name. <br> Display the records in ascending order based on movie name.\
SELECT movie_id, movie_name,concat(lead_actor_name1,' & ',lead_actor_name2) ACTORS\
 FROM movies_master \
WHERE movie_id NOT IN ( SELECT movie_id   from customer_issue_details ) \
order by movie_name asc;\
\
14.	Write a query to display the director's name, movie name and lead_actor_name1 of all the movies directed by the director who directed more than one movie. Display the directors name in capital letters. Use DIRECTOR_NAME as alias name for director name column Display the records sorted in ascending order based on director_name and then by movie_name in descending order.\
SELECT upper(director_name) DIRECTOR_NAME,movie_name,lead_actor_name1\
 FROM movies_master \
WHERE director_name in (SELECT director_name FROM movies_master \
GROUP BY director_name\
 HAVING count(movie_id)>1)\
 order by director_name, movie_name desc;\
\
15.	Write a query to display number of customers who have registered in the library in the year 2012 and who have given/provided contact number. <br> Hint:Use NO_OF_CUSTOMERS as alias name for number of customers.\
SELECT count(customer_id)  NO_OF_CUSTOMERS\
 FROM  customer_master \
WHERE extract(year from date_of_registration)=2012 and contact_no is not null\
\
16.	Write a query to display the customer's name, contact number,library card id and library card description of all the customers irrespective of customers holding a library card. If customer contact number is not available then display his address. Display the records sorted in ascending order based on customer name.  Hint: Use CONTACT_DETAILS as alias name for customer contact.\
SELECT c.customer_name,coalesce(c.contact_no,c.contact_address) CONTACT_DETAILS, cd.card_id, cd.description \
FROM customer_master c left join customer_card_details ccd \
on ccd.customer_id=c.customer_id \
left join library_card_master cd \
on cd.card_id=ccd.card_id\
 order by customer_name;\
\
17.	Write a query to display the customer id, customer name and number of times the same movie is issued to the same customers who have taken same movie more than once. Display the records sorted by customer name in decending order  For Example: Assume customer John has taken Titanic three times and customer Ram has taken Die hard only once then display the details of john.  Hint: Use NO_OF_TIMES as alias name for number of times\
SELECT cid.customer_id, customer_name, count(movie_id) NO_OF_TIMES\
 FROM customer_master cm INNER JOIN  customer_issue_details cid \
ON cm.customer_id=cid.customer_id\
 group by customer_id, customer_name,movie_id \
having count(movie_id)>1 \
order by customer_name desc;\
\
18.	Write a query to display customer id, customer name,contact number, movie category and number of movies issued to each customer based on movie category who has been issued with more than one movie in that category. Example: Display contact number as "+91-876-456-2345" format<br>Hint:Use NO_OF_MOVIES as alias name for number of movies column.\
 <br>Hint:Use CONTACT_ISD as alias name for contact number.\
<br> Display the records sorted in ascending order based on customer name and then by movie category.\
SELECT cid.customer_id,customer_name,concat('+91-',substring(contact_no,1,3),'-',substring(contact_no,4,3),'-',substring(contact_no,7)) CONTACT_ISD, movie_category, count(movie_category) NO_OF_MOVIES \
FROM customer_issue_details  cid INNER JOIN movies_master mm \
ON cid.movie_id=mm.movie_id INNER JOIN customer_master cm\
 ON cm.customer_id=cid.customer_id\
 group by customer_id, customer_name, CONTACT_ISD , movie_category\
 having count(movie_category)>1 \
order by customer_name, movie_category;\
\
19.	Write a query to display customer id and customer name of customers who has been issued with maximum number of movies and customer who has been issued with minimum no of movies. \
 For example Assume customer John has been issued 5 movies, Ram has been issued 10 movies and Kumar has been issued 2 movies. The name and id of Ram should be displayed for issuing maximum movies and Kumar should be displayed for issuing minimum movies. Consider only the customers who have been issued with atleast 1 movie Customer(s) who has/have been issued the maximum number of movies must be displayed first followed by the customer(s) who has/have been issued with the minimum number of movies. In case of multiple customers who have been displayed with the maximum or minimum number of movies, display the records sorted in ascending order based on customer name.\
select cid.customer_id , customer_name \
FROM  customer_master cm INNER JOIN customer_issue_details cid\
ON cm.customer_id=cid.customer_id\
group by customer_id , customer_name\
having count(movie_id)>=ALL(select  count(movie_id)\
FROM customer_issue_details\
group by customer_id)\
UNION ALL\
select cid.customer_id , customer_name FROM  customer_master cm INNER JOIN customer_issue_details cid\
ON cm.customer_id=cid.customer_id\
group by customer_id , customer_name\
having count(movie_id)<=ALL(select  count(movie_id)\
FROM customer_issue_details\
group by customer_id)\
 order by customer_name ;\
\
20.	Write a query to display the customer id , customer name and number of times movies have been issued from Comedy category. Display only for customers who has taken more than once.\
Hint: Use NO_OF_TIMES as alias name \
Display the records in ascending order based on customer name.\
SELECT cid.customer_id,customer_name,count(cid.movie_id) NO_OF_TIMES \
FROM customer_master cm INNER JOIN customer_issue_details cid \
ON cm.customer_id=cid.customer_id\
 INNER JOIN movies_master mm\
ON cid.movie_id=mm.movie_id \
WHERE movie_category='Comedy'\
 GROUP BY customer_name \
HAVING count(cid.customer_id)>1 \
order by customer_name;\
\
21.	Write a query to display customer id and total rent paid by the customers who are issued with the videos. Need not display the customers who has not taken / issued with any videos. Hint: Alias Name for total rent paid is TOTAL_COST. Display the records sorted in ascending order based on customer id\
SELECT cid.customer_id, sum(rental_cost) TOTAL_COST \
FROM customer_issue_details cid INNER JOIN movies_master mm\
 ON cid.movie_id=mm.movie_id \
GROUP BY customer_id \
order by customer_id;\
\
LIBRARY MANAGEENT SYSTEM 4\
\
--------------------------------SIMPLE--------------------------------\
\
1)select member_id,member_name,city,membership_status from\
lms_members where membership_status='permanent';\
\
2)select b.book_code,b.publication,b.price,s.supplier_name\
from lms_book_details b\
join lms_suppliers_details s on(s.supplier_id=b.supplier_id)\
join lms_book_issue bi on(b.book_code=bi.book_code)\
group by bi.book_code\
having count(bi.book_code)=\
(select max(c) from (select count(bi.book_issue_no)c from\
lms_book_issue bi group by bi.book_code)t);\
\
3)select m.member_id,m.member_name from lms_members m\
join lms_book_issue bi on(m.member_id=bi.member_id)\
where bi.book_code='BL000002';\
\
4) select b.book_code,b.book_title,b.author from lms_book_details b\
 where author like 'P%';\
\
5)select count(book_code) "No of books" from lms_book_details\
where category='java';\
\
6)select category,count(book_code)"No of books" from lms_book_details\
group by category;\
\
7)select count(book_code)"No of books" from lms_book_details\
where publication='Prentice Hall';\
\
8)select b.BOOK_CODE,b.BOOK_TITLE,i.DATE_ISSUE from lms_book_details b, lms_book_issue i \
where b.BOOK_CODE=i.BOOK_CODE and DATE_ISSUE = '2012-04-01';\
\
\
9)select member_id,member_name,date_register,date_expire\
from lms_members\
where date_expire<'2013-04-30';\
\
or\
\
select member_id,member_name,date_register,date_expire\
from lms_members \
where date_expire<date_format(date_expire,'2013-05-%d');\
\
10)select member_id,member_name,date_register,membership_status\
from lms_members\
where date_register<'2012-03-01' and membership_status='Temporary';\
\
11)select member_id,member_name Name from lms_members\
where city='delhi' or city='Chennai';\
\
or\
\
select member_id,member_name Name from lms_members\
where city in ("delhi","chennai");\
\
12)select distinct concat(BOOK_TITLE ,' _is_written_by ',AUTHOR ) BOOK_WRITTEN_BY from lms_book_details;\
\
13)select avg(price) AVERAGEPRICE from lms_book_details where CATEGORY = 'JAVA';\
\
14)select supplier_id,supplier_name,email from lms_suppliers_details\
where email like "%gmail%";\
\
15)select SUPPLIER_ID, SUPPLIER_NAME, COALESCE( contact, email, ADDRESS)Contact_details \
from lms_suppliers_details;\
\
16)select SUPPLIER_ID,SUPPLIER_NAME,contact,if(contact,'yes','no') PHONENOAVAILABLE \
from lms_suppliers_details;\
\
or\
\
select supplier_id,supplier_name,\
case when contact is null then 'no'\
else 'yes' end "PHONENUMAVAILABLE"\
from lms_suppliers_details;\
\
17)select m.member_id,m.member_name,m.city,m.membership_status,sum(f.fine_amount)fine\
    -> from lms_members m\
    -> join lms_book_issue bi on(m.member_id=bi.member_id)\
    -> join lms_fine_details f on(bi.fine_range=f.fine_range)\
    -> group by m.member_id;\
\
---------------------------AVERAGE----------------------\
1)select m.member_id,m.member_name,b.book_code,b.book_title\
from lms_members m\
join lms_book_issue bi on(bi.member_id=m.member_id)\
join lms_book_details b on(bi.book_code=b.book_code);\
\
2)select count(book_code) "No_of_books_available" from lms_book_details\
where book_code not in(select book_code from lms_book_issue);\
\
3) select m.member_id,m.member_name,f.fine_range,f.fine_amount\
 from lms_members m\
 join lms_book_issue bi on(bi.member_id=m.member_id)\
 join lms_fine_details f on(bi.fine_range=f.fine_range)\
 where f.fine_amount<100;\
\
4)select book_code,book_title,publication,book_edition,price,year(publish_date)from \
lms_book_details order by year(publish_date),publication,book_edition;\
\
5)select book_code,book_title,rack_num from lms_book_details\
where rack_num='A1' order by book_title;\
\
6)select m.member_id, m.member_name, b.DATE_RETURN, b.date_returned from lm\
s_members m join lms_book_issue b on( m.member_id = b.member_id)where DATE_RETURNED > DATE_RETURN;\
\
7)select MEMBER_ID, MEMBER_NAME, DATE_REGISTER from lms_members\
where MEMBER_ID not in(select member_id from lms_book_issue);\
\
8)select m.member_id, m.member_name from lms_members m\
join lms_book_issue b on(m.member_id = b.member_id)\
where b.FINE_RANGE = 'R0' && year (b.date_return) = '2012';\
\
9)select date_issue,count(book_code) "NOOFBOOKS"\
from lms_book_issue\
group by date_issue\
having count(book_code)=\
(select max(cnt) from\
(select count(book_code) cnt\
from lms_book_issue\
group by date_issue)t);\
\
10)select b.BOOK_TITLE, s.SUPPLIER_ID from lms_suppliers_details s\
join lms_book_details b on(s.supplier_id = b.supplier_id) \
where b.author = 'Herbert Schildt' && b.book_edition = 5 && b.supplier_id= 'S01';\
\
11)select RACK_NUM, count(book_code) NO_OF_BOOKS from lms_book_details group\
 by rack_num order by RACK_NUM;\
\
12)select bi.book_issue_no,m.member_name,m.date_register,\
m.date_expire,bd.book_title,bd.category,bd.author,bd.price,\
bi.date_issue,bi.date_return,bi.date_returned,fd.fine_amount\
from lms_members m\
join lms_book_issue bi on(m.member_id=bi.member_id)\
join lms_fine_details fd on(bi.fine_range=fd.fine_range)\
join lms_book_details bd on(bd.book_code=bi.book_code);\
\
13)select BOOK_CODE, BOOK_TITLE, PUBLISH_DATE from lms_book_details where month(publish_date) = '12';\
\
14)select b.book_code,b.book_title,s.supplier_name,(b.price)\
from lms_book_details b join lms_suppliers_details s\
on(b.supplier_id=s.supplier_id)\
where b.book_code in\
(select book_code from lms_book_details\
where price in\
(select max(price) from lms_book_details\
group by supplier_id)\
group by supplier_id);\
\
15) select book_code,book_title,publication,\
datediff(current_date,publish_date) "book age"\
from lms_book_details\
order by datediff(current_date,publish_date) desc;\
\
------------------------------------complex------------------------\
\
1) select b.book_code,b.book_title,s.supplier_name\
from lms_book_details b join lms_suppliers_details s\
on(b.supplier_id=s.supplier_id)\
group by b.supplier_id\
having count(b.book_code)=\
(select max(cnt) from\
(select count(book_code) cnt\
from lms_book_details \
group by supplier_id)t);\
\
2)select m.member_id,m.member_name,\
(3-count(bi.book_code))"REMAININGBOOKS"\
from lms_members m join\
lms_book_issue bi on(m.member_id=bi.member_id)\
group by bi.member_id;\
\
3)select s.supplier_id,s.supplier_name\
from lms_suppliers_details s\
join lms_book_details b on(s.supplier_id=b.supplier_id)\
group by b.supplier_id\
having count(b.book_code)=\
(select min(cnt) from\
(select count(book_code) cnt\
from lms_book_details\
group by supplier_id)t);\
\
\
LOAN MANAGEMENT SYSTEM\
\
1.	Write a query to display category and number of items in that category. Give the count an alias name of Count_category. Display the details on the sorted order of count in descending order.\
SELECT  item_category , count(item_id) Count_category\
FROM item_master\
GROUP BY item_category \
order by count_category DESC\
\
2.	Write a query to display the number of employees in HR department. Give the alias name as No_of_Employees.\
SELECT count(employee_id) AS No_of_Employees\
FROM employee_master\
WHERE department= 'HR'\
\
3.	Write a query to display employee id, employee name, designation and department for employees who have never been issued an item as a loan from the company. Display the records sorted in ascending order based on employee id.\
SELECT employee_id, employee_name, designation, department\
FROM employee_master \
WHERE employee_id  NOT IN ( SELECT employee_id FROM employee_issue_details)\
order by employee_id;\
4.	Write a query to display the employee id, employee name who was issued an item of highest valuation.<br> In case of multiple records, display the records sorted in ascending order based on employee id.\
[Hint Suppose an item called dinning table is of 22000 and that is the highest price of the item that has been issued. So display the employee id and employee name who issued dinning table whose price is 22000.]\
SELECT eid.employee_id, employee_name\
FROM employee_master em INNER JOIN employee_issue_details eid\
ON em.employee_id=eid.employee_id\
INNER JOIN item_master im\
ON eid.item_id=im.item_id\
WHERE item_valuation=(SELECT max(item_valuation)\
FROM employee_issue_details eid INNER JOIN item_master im\
ON eid.item_id=im.item_id) \
order by eid.employee_id;\
\
5.	Write a query to display issue_id, employee_id, employee_name.\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on issue id.\
SELECT issue_id, eid.employee_id, employee_name\
FROM employee_master em INNER JOIN  employee_issue_details eid\
ON em.employee_id=eid.employee_id\
 order by issue_id;\
\
6.	Write a query to display employee id, employee name who don\'edt have loan cards.\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on employee id.\
SELECT employee_id, employee_name\
FROM employee_master\
WHERE employee_id NOT IN ( SELECT employee_id FROM employee_card_details )\
order by employee_id;\
\
7.	Write a query to count the number of cards issued to an employee \'ecRam\'ee.  Give the count an alias name as No_of_Cards.\
SELECT count(loan_id)  AS No_of_Cards\
FROM  employee_card_details c  INNER JOIN  employee_master e\
ON    c.employee_id = e.employee_id\
WHERE e.employee_name= 'Ram'\
GROUP BY c.employee_id\
\
8.	Write a query to display the count of customers who have gone for loan type stationary. Give the count an alias name as Count_stationary.\
SELECT count(employee_id)  Count_stationary\
FROM  employee_card_details ecd INNER JOIN  loan_card_master lcd\
ON ecd.loan_id=lcd.loan_id\
WHERE  loan_type='stationary'\
\
9.	Write a query to display the employee id, employee name   and number of items issued to them. Give the number of items an alias name as Count. Display the details in descending order of count and then by employee id in ascending order. Consider only employees who have been issued atleast 1 item.\
SELECT eid.employee_id, employee_name, count(item_id) Count\
FROM  employee_master em INNER JOIN employee_issue_details eid\
ON em.employee_id=eid.employee_id\
GROUP BY employee_id, employee_name\
order by count DESC, eid.employee_id;\
\
10.	Write a query to display the employee id, employee name who was issued an item of minimum valuation.\
<br>\
In case of multiple records, display them sorted in ascending order based on employee id.\
\
[Hint Suppose an item called pen is of rupees 20 and that is the lowest price. So display the employee id and employee name who issued pen where the valuation is 20.]\
SELECT eid.employee_id, employee_name\
FROM employee_master em INNER JOIN employee_issue_details eid\
ON em.employee_id=eid.employee_id\
INNER JOIN item_master im\
ON eid.item_id=im.item_id\
WHERE item_valuation=(SELECT min(item_valuation)\
FROM employee_issue_details eid INNER JOIN item_master im\
ON eid.item_id=im.item_id)\
order by eid.employee_id;\
\
11.	Write a query to display the employee id, employee name and total valuation of the product issued to each employee.  Give the alias name as TOTAL_VALUATION.\
<br>\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on employee id.\
<br>\
Consider only employees who have been issued atleast 1 item.\
SELECT em.employee_id, employee_name, sum(item_valuation) TOTAL_VALUATION\
FROM employee_master em INNER  JOIN employee_issue_details eid\
ON em.employee_id=eid.employee_id\
INNER JOIN item_master im\
ON eid.item_id=im.item_id\
GROUP BY eid.employee_id, employee_name\
ORDER BY eid.employee_id;\
\
12.	Write a query to display distinct employee id, employee name who kept the item issued for more than a year. Hint: Use Date time function to calculate the difference between item issue and return date. Display the records only if it is more than 365 Days.\
<br>\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on employee id.\
SELECT DISTINCT eid.employee_id,employee_name\
FROM  employee_issue_details eid JOIN employee_master em\
ON eid.employee_id=em.employee_id\
WHERE datediff(return_date,issue_date) >  365\
order by eid.employee_id;\
\
13.	Write a query to display employee id, employee name and count of items of those who asked for more than 1 furniture. Give the alias name for count of items as COUNT_ITEMS.\
<br>\
Display the records sorted in ascending order on employee id.\
SELECT eid.employee_id, employee_name, count(eid.item_id) COUNT_ITEMS\
FROM employee_issue_details eid JOIN item_master im\
ON eid.item_id=im.item_id\
JOIN employee_master em\
ON eid.employee_id=em.employee_id\
WHERE item_category='furniture'\
GROUP BY employee_id, employee\'a8_name\
HAVING COUNT_ITEMS>1\
order by eid.employee_id;\
\
14.	Write a query to display the number of men & women Employees. The query should display the gender and number of Employees as No_of_Employees. Display the records sorted in ascending order based on gender.\
SELECT gender , count(gender) No_of_Employees\
FROM employee_master\
GROUP BY gender \
ORDER BY gender;\
\
15.	Write a query to display employee id, employee name who joined the company after 2005. Display the records sorted in ascending order based on employee id.\
SELECT employee_id, employee_name\
FROM employee_master\
WHERE extract(year from date_of_joining)>2005\
order by employee_id;\
\
16.	Write a query to get the number of items of the furniture category issued and not issued. The query should display issue status and the number of furniture as No_of_Furnitures.\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on issue_status.\
SELECT  issue_status, count(item_id) No_of_Furnitures\
FROM item_master\
WHERE  item_category='Furniture'\
GROUP BY issue_status\
ORDER BY issue_status\
\
17.	Write a query to find the number of items in each category, make and description. The Query should display Item Category, Make, description and the number of items as No_of_Items. Display the records in ascending order based on Item Category, then by item make and then by item description.\
SELECT item_category, item_make, item_description, count(item_description) No_of_Items \
FROM item_master \
GROUP BY item_category, item_make, item_description \
ORDER BY item_category, item_make,item_description;\
\
18.	Write a query to display employee id, employee name, item id and item description of employees who were issued item(s) in the month of January 2013. Display the records sorted in order based on employee id and then by item id in ascending order.\
SELECT  eid.employee_id, employee_name, eid.item_id, item_description\
FROM employee_issue_details eid JOIN employee_master em\
ON eid.employee_id=em.employee_id\
JOIN item_master im\
ON eid.item_id=im.item_id\
WHERE extract(month from issue_date)=1 and extract(year from issue_date)=2013\
ORDER BY eid.employee_id, eid.item_id;\
\
19.	Write a query to display the employee id, employee name and count of item category of the employees who have been issued items in at least 2 different categories.\
Give the alias name for category count as COUNT_CATEGORY.\
Display the records sorted in ascending order based on employee id.\
SELECT em.employee_id,employee_name, count(distinct item_category) COUNT_CATEGORY\
 FROM employee_issue_details eid JOIN item_master im\
ON eid.item_id=im.item_id\
JOIN employee_master em\
ON eid.employee_id=em.employee_id\
GROUP BY employee_id, employee_name\
HAVING COUNT_CATEGORY>=2\
ORDER BY employee_id;\
\
20.	Write a query to display the item id , item description which was never issued to any employee. Display the records sorted in ascending order based on item id.\
SELECT item_id, item_description\
FROM item_master  \
WHERE item_id NOT IN ( SELECT item_id from employee_issue_details)\
ORDER BY item_id;\
\
21.	Write a query to display the employee id, employee name for the employees who has issued minimum total valuation of the product.  Give the alias name for total valuation as TOTAL_VALUATION.\
\
[Hint: Suppose an employee E00019 issued item of price 5000, 10000, 12000 and E00020 issue item of price 2000, 7000 and 1000. So the valuation of items taken by E00019 is 27000 and for E00020 it is 10000. So the employee id, employee name of E00020 should be displayed. ]\
 Select employee_issue_details.employee_id, employee_master.employee_name, sum(item_master.item_valuation) as TOTAL_VALUATION \
from employee_issue_details inner join item_master \
on item_master.item_id = employee_issue_details.item_id\
inner join employee_master\
on employee_master.employee_id=employee_issue_details.employee_id\
group by employee_issue_details.employee_id \
order by TOTAL_VALUATION asc  limit 1;\
\
22.	Write a query to display the employee id, employee name, card issue date and card valid date.\
Order by employee name and then by card valid date. Give the alias name to display the card valid date as CARD_VALID_DATE.\
\
[Hint:  Validity in years for the loan card is given in loan_card_master table. Validity date is calculated by adding number of years in the loan card issue date. If the duration of year is zero then display AS 'No Validity Date'. ]\
SELECT ecd.employee_id,employee_name, card_issue_date, \
CASE duration_in_years\
WHEN 0 THEN 'No Validity Date'\
ELSE DATE_ADD(card_issue_date, INTERVAL duration_in_years YEAR)\
END CARD_VALID_DATE\
FROM employee_master em INNER JOIN employee_card_details ecd\
ON em.employee_id=ecd.employee_id\
INNER JOIN loan_card_master lcd\
ON ecd.loan_id=lcd.loan_id\
order by employee_name,  CARD_VALID_DATE;\
\
23.	Write a query to display the employee id, employee name who have not issued with any item  in the year 2013. Hint: Exclude those employees who was never issued with any of the items in all the years. Display the records sorted in ascending order based on employee id.\
SELECT DISTINCT a.employee_id,b.employee_name\
FROM employee_issue_details a JOIN employee_master b\
 ON a.employee_id=b.employee_id \
WHERE a.employee_id NOT IN(SELECT employee_id FROM employee_issue_details \
WHERE (EXTRACT(YEAR FROM issue_date)=2013))\
ORDER BY a.employee_id;\
\
24.	Write a query to display issue id, employee id, employee name, item id, item description and issue date.  Display the data in descending order of date and then by issue id in ascending order.\
SELECT issue_id, eid.employee_id, employee_name, im.item_id, item_description,issue_date\
FROM employee_issue_details eid INNER JOIN employee_master em\
ON eid.employee_id=em.employee_id\
INNER JOIN item_master im\
ON eid.item_id=im.item_id\
ORDER BY issue_date desc, issue_id asc;\
\
25.	Write a query to display the employee id, employee name and total valuation for employee who has issued maximum total valuation of the product. Give the alias name for total valuation as TOTAL_VALUATION.\
<br>[Hint: Suppose an employee E00019 issued item of price 5000, 10000, 12000 and E00020 issue item of price 2000, 7000, and 1000. So the valuation of items taken by E00019 is 27000 and for E00020 it is 10000. So the employee id, employee name and total valuation of E00019 should display. ]\
Select employee_issue_details.employee_id, employee_master.employee_name, sum(item_master.item_valuation)as TOTAL_VALUATION\
 from employee_issue_details inner join item_master \
on item_master.item_id = employee_issue_details.item_id\
inner join employee_master\
on employee_master.employee_id=employee_issue_details.employee_id\
group by employee_issue_details.employee_id \
order by TOTAL_VALUATION desc limit 1;\
\
LOAN MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 2\
\
select e.employee_id,e.employee_name \
from employee_master em,\
employee_card_details ecd,\
loan_card_master lcm\
where em.employee_id=ecd.employee_id \
and ecd.loan_id=lcm.laon_id and\
lcm.loan_id not \
in(select loan_id from employee_card_details)\
order by em.employee_name'\
\
\
select distinct(em.employee_id),em.employee_name,em.designation,em.department from \
employee_master em,employee_issue_details eid,item_master im\
where em.employee_id=eid.employee_id and eid.item_id=im.item_id and \
im.item_id not in(select item_id from item_master where issue_status='N')\
order by em.employee_name;\
\
\
\
\
\
select distinct(em.empployee_id),em.employee_name,im.item_id,im.item_description from \
employee_master em,employee_issue_details eid,item_master im where\
em.employee_id=eid.employee_id and eid.item_id=im.item_id and\
year(eid.issue_date)=2013 and month(eid.issue_date)=01\
order by em.employee_id,im.item_id;\
\
\
\
\
\
select count(lcm.loan_id) No_of_Cards from employee_master em,employee_card_details ecd,loan_card_master lcm\
where em.employee_id=ecd.employee_id and ecd.loan_id=lcm.loan_id and\
em.employee_name="Ram"\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
select im.item_category,im.item_make,im.item_make,im.item_description,count(im.item_id) No_of_Items\
from employee_master em,employee_issue_details eid,item_master im where\
em.epmloyee_id=eid.employee_id and eid.item_id=im.item_id\
group by im.item_category\
order by im.item_category,im.item_make,im.item_description;\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
select em.employee_id,em.amployee_name from employee_master em,employee_issue_details eid\
where em.employee_id=eid.employee_id and\
datediff(eid.return_date,eid.start_date)>365\
order by em.employee_id;\
\
\
\
\
MOBILE STORE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM\
\
Mobile Store Query Solutions:\
1)	select IME_NO, MODEL_NAME from mobile_master where manufacturer = 'Nokia';\
2)	select m.IME_NO, m.MODEL_NAME, m.MANUFACTURER, s.CAMERA_QUALITY from mobile_master m join mobile_specification s on(m.ime_no = s.ime_no) \
where camera_quality = '5MP';\
3)	select model_name, count(model_name) NoOfMobilesSold from sales_info \
where sales_date = '2012-04-23' group by model_name;\
4)	select d.distributor_id, m.model_name, count(model_name) NoOfMobilesSupplied from distributor d join mobile_master m on(d.distributor_id = m.distributor_id)  group by m.model_name, m.distributor_id order by m.distributor_id;\
5)	select DISTINCT m.ime_no, m.model_name, m.manufacturer, m.price, s.discount from mobile_master m join sales_info s\
6)	select d.distributor_name, d.mobile, d.email from distributor d join mobile_master m\
on(d.distributor_id = m.distributor_id) where model_name = 'Nokia 1100';\
7)	select ime_no, model_name from mobile_master where model_name \
NOT IN( select model_name from sales_info);\
8)	select m.ime_no, m.model_name, max(s.net_amount) Net_Amount from mobile_master m\
join sales_info s on(m.ime_no = s.ime_no);\
9)	select ime_no, model_name, manufacturer, price, price + (price * 10/100) New_Price from mobile_master;\
10)	select model_name, manufacturer, price from mobile_master where price >= 8500 and price <= 25300 ;\
11)	select m.Model_Name, m.Manufacturer, m.Price, m.Warranty_in_Years, s.Internal_mem_in_MB,  s.Memory_Card_Capacity_GB, s.GPRS, s.Bluetooth, s.Camera_Quality, s.OS from mobile_master m join mobile_specification s on(m.ime_no = s.ime_no) where m.ime_no = 'MC1000104';\
12)	select m.IME_No, m.Model_Name, m.Manufacturer, m.Price, s.GPRS, s.Memory_Card_Capacity_GB from mobile_master m join mobile_specification s on(m.ime_no = s.ime_no) where s.GPRS = 'yes' and s.Memory_Card_Capacity_GB >= '16GB';\
13)	select c.Customer_Name, s.IME_No, s.Model_Name, s.Sales_Date, s.Net_Amount from customer_info c join sales_info s on( c.Customer_ID = s.Customer_ID ) group by c.Customer_Name;\
14)	select  m.IME_No, m.Model_Name, m.Manufacturer, m.Price, IFNULL(s.Discount, 'NotSold') discount from mobile_master m left outer join sales_info s on(m.ime_no = s.ime_no);\
15)	select Sales_Date, sum(Net_Amount) TotalNetAmount from sales_info  where Sales_Date between '2012-04-12' and '2012-04-25' group by sales_date;\
16)	select m.IME_No, m.Model_Name, m.Manufacturer, m.Price, s.Battery_Life_Hrs\
from mobile_master m join mobile_specification s on( m.ime_no = s.ime_no )\
where s.Battery_Life_Hrs = (select max(Battery_Life_Hrs) from mobile_specification);\
17)	select IME_No, Model_Name, Manufacturer, Price from mobile_master\
where price = (select max(price) from mobile_master);\
18)	select c.Customer_ID, c.Customer_Name, c.Address, sum(s.Net_Amount) Total_net_amount\
from customer_info c join sales_info s on(c.customer_id = s.customer_id)\
group by c.Customer_Name;\
19)	select DISTINCT Model_Name, Manufacturer, max(Price) from mobile_master\
where Manufacturer = 'Samsung';\
20)	select m.IME_No, m.Model_Name, m.Manufacturer, m.Distributor_ID, d.Distributor_Name, m.Price from mobile_master m join distributor d on( m.distributor_id = d.distributor_id)\
where d.Distributor_Name = 'AXA Ltd';\
21)	select DISTINCT d.Distributor_ID, d.Distributor_Name, d.Address, d.Mobile, d.Email\
from distributor d join mobile_master m on(d.distributor_id = m.distributor_id)\
where d.Distributor_ID = (select min(m.Distributor_ID) from mobile_master m\
join distributor d on(m.Distributor_ID = d.distributor_id));\
22)	select c.Customer_ID, c.Customer_Name, c.Address from customer_info c\
join sales_info s on( c.customer_id = s.customer_id ) group by c.Customer_Name\
having sum(net_amount) = \
(select max(s) from (select sum(net_amount) s from sales_info group by customer_id)t);\
23)	select m.model_name, m.ime_no, IF(s.discount,'Sold','NotSold') SalesStatus from mobile_master m left outer join sales_info s on(m.ime_no = s.ime_no) where m.model_name = 'Samsung GalaxyTAB';\
24)	select DISTINCT d.distributor_id, d.Distributor_Name, d.Address, d.Mobile from distributor d \
join mobile_master m on(d.distributor_id = m.distributor_id)\
join mobile_specification s on(m.ime_no = s.ime_no)\
where s.Network_3G = 'yes' and os like 'Android%' and camera_quality = '3.5MP';\
25)	select s.Model_Name, m.Manufacturer from sales_info s\
join mobile_master m on (s.ime_no = m.ime_no) group by s.model_name having count(*) = \
(select max(cnt )from (select count(*) cnt  from sales_info group by model_name)t);\
\
\
\
EMPLOYEE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM\
\
\
1.Write a query to display the employee ID, first name of the supervisors who has the maximum number of direct reportees (employees).\
Hint: Assume, employee A has 2 reportees, B has 3 reportees and C has 1 reportee. Here, Employee B's employee ID and first name should be displayed\
\
mysql> SELECT emp_id, first_name\
    -> FROM emp_details\
    -> WHERE emp_id in (SELECT supervisor_id FROM emp_details);\
+--------+------------+\
| emp_id | first_name |\
+--------+------------+\
|      2 | John       |\
|      3 | Rahul      |\
|      4 | Ram        |\
|      6 | Prachi     |\
|      7 | Sanjay     |\
+--------+------------+\
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
SELECT s.emp_id, s.first_name, count(e.emp_id) as 'NO_OF_REPORTEES'\
FROM (	SELECT emp_id, first_name\
	FROM emp_details\
	WHERE emp_id in (	SELECT supervisor_id \
				FROM emp_details))s, \
	emp_details e\
\
WHERE s.emp_id=e.supervisor_id\
GROUP BY s.emp_id;\
\
+--------+------------+-----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | NO_OF_REPORTEES |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+\
|      2 | John       |               2 |\
|      3 | Rahul      |               2 |\
|      4 | Ram        |               3 |\
|      6 | Prachi     |               2 |\
|      7 | Sanjay     |               2 |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+\
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
SELECT s.emp_id, s.first_name, count(e.emp_id) as 'NO_OF_REPORTEES'\
FROM emp_details e, emp_details s\
WHERE s.emp_id=e.supervisor_id\
GROUP BY s.emp_id\
HAVING NO_OF_REPORTEES IN (	SELECT MAX(c) \
				FROM (	SELECT count(*) c \
					FROM emp_details e\
					GROUP BY supervisor_id)a\
			);\
\
\
+--------+------------+-----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | NO_OF_REPORTEES |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+\
|      4 | Ram        |               3 |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+\
1 row in set (0.01 sec)\
\
\
\
\
\
-------------OR-----------\
\
\
SELECT s.emp_id, s.first_name, count(e.emp_id) as 'NO_OF_REPORTEES'\
FROM (	SELECT emp_id, first_name\
	FROM emp_details\
	WHERE emp_id in (	SELECT supervisor_id \
				FROM emp_details))s, \
	emp_details e\
\
WHERE s.emp_id=e.supervisor_id\
GROUP BY s.emp_id\
HAVING NO_OF_REPORTEES IN (	SELECT MAX(c) \
				FROM (	SELECT count(*) c \
					FROM emp_details e\
					GROUP BY supervisor_id)a\
			);\
\
+--------+------------+-----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | NO_OF_REPORTEES |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+\
|      4 | Ram        |               3 |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+\
\
\
\
SELECT s.emp_id, s.first_name, count(e.emp_id) as 'NO_OF_REPORTEES'\
FROM emp_details e, emp_details s\
WHERE s.emp_id=e.supervisor_id\
GROUP BY s.emp_id\
HAVING NO_OF_REPORTEES IN (	SELECT MAX(c) \
				FROM (	SELECT count(*) c \
					FROM emp_details e\
					GROUP BY supervisor_id)a\
			);\
\
\
+--------+------------+-----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | NO_OF_REPORTEES |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+\
|      4 | Ram        |               3 |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+\
1 row in set (0.01 sec)\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
2.Write a query to find all employees who report to an employee 'Rahul' and who are not in any project and display the employee id, employee first name, designation ID, join date and supervisor id of those employees.\
Hint: Employees who are not currently in projects means they either got released from the project or not at all allocated to any project.\
\
\
EMP REPORTING TO RAM>>>>>>>>\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.designation_id, e.join_date, e.supervisor_id\
FROM emp_details e\
WHERE e.supervisor_id = (SELECT emp_id FROM emp_details WHERE first_name='Rahul');\
\
+--------+------------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_id | join_date  | supervisor_id |\
+--------+------------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
|      1 | Sam        | C4             | 2005-04-02 |             3 |\
|      9 | Sagar      | C2             | 2007-05-15 |             3 |\
+--------+------------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
EMP NOT IN PROJECT>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
SELECT emp_id, first_name\
FROM emp_details\
WHERE emp_id NOT IN (SELECT DISTINCT emp_id FROM project_alloc);\
\
+--------+------------+\
| emp_id | first_name |\
+--------+------------+\
|      2 | John       |\
|      9 | Sagar      |\
|     12 | Ravi       |\
+--------+------------+\
3 rows in set (0.01 sec)\
\
\
SAGAR IS COMMON IN BOTH...\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.designation_id, e.join_date, e.supervisor_id\
FROM emp_details e\
WHERE e.supervisor_id = (SELECT emp_id FROM emp_details WHERE first_name='Rahul')\
	AND e.emp_id NOT IN (SELECT DISTINCT emp_id FROM project_alloc);\
\
+--------+------------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_id | join_date  | supervisor_id |\
+--------+------------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
|      9 | Sagar      | C2             | 2007-05-15 |             3 |\
+--------+------------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
1 row in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
3.Write a query to display employee id,first name, last name, salary and designation id of employees who is getting maximum salary in each designation. \
Don?t display the details of designation VP and sort the records based on designation in ascending order\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.last_name, e.salary, e.designation_id\
FROM emp_details e\
ORDER BY e.designation_id DESC, e.salary DESC;\
\
+--------+------------+-----------+-----------+----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | last_name | salary    | designation_id |\
+--------+------------+-----------+-----------+----------------+\
|      7 | Sanjay     | Mittal    | 100000.00 | VP             |\
|     11 | Rahgu      | Gupta     |  70000.00 | C5             |\
|      2 | John       | Gilbert   |  25000.00 | C5             |\
|      8 | Ryan       | Sharma    |  50000.00 | C4             |\
|      1 | Sam        | Saha      |  10000.00 | C4             |\
|     10 | Tony       | Stark     |  60000.00 | C3             |\
|      4 | Ram        | Kumar     |  35000.00 | C3             |\
|      9 | Sagar      | Sharma    |  25000.00 | C2             |\
|      5 | Mark       | Stuart    |  10000.00 | C2             |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Sharma    |  50000.00 | C1             |\
|     12 | Ravi       | Dutta     |  20000.00 | C1             |\
|      3 | Rahul      | Kumar     |  15000.00 | C1             |\
+--------+------------+-----------+-----------+----------------+\
12 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.last_name, e.salary, e.designation_id\
FROM emp_details e, (select designation_id, max(salary) max_sal FROM emp_details GROUP BY designation_id)e1\
WHERE e.designation_id = e1.designation_id AND e.salary=e1.max_sal\
GROUP BY e.designation_id;\
\
+--------+------------+-----------+-----------+----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | last_name | salary    | designation_id |\
+--------+------------+-----------+-----------+----------------+\
|      6 | Prachi     | Sharma    |  50000.00 | C1             |\
|      9 | Sagar      | Sharma    |  25000.00 | C2             |\
|     10 | Tony       | Stark     |  60000.00 | C3             |\
|      8 | Ryan       | Sharma    |  50000.00 | C4             |\
|     11 | Rahgu      | Gupta     |  70000.00 | C5             |\
|      7 | Sanjay     | Mittal    | 100000.00 | VP             |\
+--------+------------+-----------+-----------+----------------+\
6 rows in set (0.01 sec)\
\
\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.last_name, e.salary, e.designation_id\
FROM emp_details e, (select designation_id, max(salary) max_sal FROM emp_details GROUP BY designation_id)e1\
WHERE e.designation_id = e1.designation_id AND e.salary=e1.max_sal AND e.designation_id!='VP'\
GROUP BY e.designation_id\
ORDER BY e.designation_id desc;\
\
+--------+------------+-----------+----------+----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | last_name | salary   | designation_id |\
+--------+------------+-----------+----------+----------------+\
|     11 | Rahgu      | Gupta     | 70000.00 | C5             |\
|      8 | Ryan       | Sharma    | 50000.00 | C4             |\
|     10 | Tony       | Stark     | 60000.00 | C3             |\
|      9 | Sagar      | Sharma    | 25000.00 | C2             |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Sharma    | 50000.00 | C1             |\
+--------+------------+-----------+----------+----------------+\
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
4.Write to query to find for each project, find the number of employees who have either an 'OOP' or 'TEST' skill and display the project name and number of employees. \
Hint: Use "NO_OF_EMPLOYEE" as alias name for displaying the number of employees.\
\
\
SELECT p.proj_name, e.emp_id\
FROM project_details p, project_alloc a, skill s, emp_details e\
WHERE e.emp_id=a.emp_id AND p.proj_id=a.proj_id AND e.skill_id=s.skill_id;\
+-----------+--------+\
| proj_name | emp_id |\
+-----------+--------+\
| FMS       |      5 |\
| FMS       |      3 |\
| HMS       |      8 |\
| LMS       |      6 |\
| LMS       |      5 |\
| LMS       |      6 |\
| UMS       |     10 |\
| UMS       |      7 |\
| GMS       |      4 |\
| GMS       |      1 |\
| GMS       |     11 |\
| GMS       |      1 |\
+-----------+--------+\
12 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
SELECT p.proj_name, count(e.emp_id) as 'NO_OF_EMPLOYEE'\
FROM project_details p, project_alloc a, skill s, emp_details e\
WHERE e.emp_id=a.emp_id AND p.proj_id=a.proj_id AND e.skill_id=s.skill_id\
GROUP BY p.proj_name;\
\
+-----------+----------------+\
| proj_name | NO_OF_EMPLOYEE |\
+-----------+----------------+\
| FMS       |              2 |\
| GMS       |              4 |\
| HMS       |              1 |\
| LMS       |              3 |\
| UMS       |              2 |\
+-----------+----------------+\
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>\
\
\
SELECT p.proj_name, count(e.emp_id) as 'NO_OF_EMPLOYEE', s.skill_name\
FROM project_details p, project_alloc a, skill s, emp_details e\
WHERE e.emp_id=a.emp_id AND p.proj_id=a.proj_id AND e.skill_id=s.skill_id AND s.skill_name IN ('OOP', 'TEST')\
GROUP BY p.proj_name;\
\
+-----------+----------------+\
| proj_name | NO_OF_EMPLOYEE |\
+-----------+----------------+\
| FMS       |              1 |\
| GMS       |              2 |\
| LMS       |              1 |\
| UMS       |              1 |\
+-----------+----------------+\
4 rows in set (0.02 sec)\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
5.Write a query to find all peoples who have either a 'JAV' or 'DES' skills and either 'E1' or 'E2' proficiency levels and \
display the employee ID, employee first name, designation ID, skill ID, proficiency level and years of experience of those peoples.\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.designation_id, e.skill_id, s.proficiency_level, s.year_of_experience\
FROM emp_details e, skill s\
WHERE e.skill_id=s.skill_id;\
\
+--------+------------+----------------+----------+-------------------+--------------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_id | skill_id | proficiency_level | year_of_experience |\
+--------+------------+----------------+----------+-------------------+--------------------+\
|      1 | Sam        | C4             |        1 | E0                |                  2 |\
|      2 | John       | C5             |        6 | E1                |                  3 |\
|      3 | Rahul      | C1             |        5 | E1                |                  2 |\
|      4 | Ram        | C3             |        9 | E2                |                  1 |\
|      5 | Mark       | C2             |        3 | E0                |                  1 |\
|      6 | Prachi     | C1             |        5 | E1                |                  2 |\
|      7 | Sanjay     | VP             |        9 | E2                |                  1 |\
|      8 | Ryan       | C4             |        5 | E1                |                  2 |\
|      9 | Sagar      | C2             |        6 | E1                |                  3 |\
|     10 | Tony       | C3             |        1 | E0                |                  2 |\
|     11 | Rahgu      | C5             |        9 | E2                |                  1 |\
|     12 | Ravi       | C1             |        7 | E1                |                  5 |\
+--------+------------+----------------+----------+-------------------+--------------------+\
12 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.designation_id, e.skill_id, s.proficiency_level, s.year_of_experience\
FROM emp_details e, skill s\
WHERE e.skill_id=s.skill_id AND s.skill_name IN ('JAV', 'DES') AND s.proficiency_level IN ('E1', 'E2');\
\
+--------+------------+----------------+----------+-------------------+--------------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_id | skill_id | proficiency_level | year_of_experience |\
+--------+------------+----------------+----------+-------------------+--------------------+\
|      2 | John       | C5             |        6 | E1                |                  3 |\
|      3 | Rahul      | C1             |        5 | E1                |                  2 |\
|      4 | Ram        | C3             |        9 | E2                |                  1 |\
|      6 | Prachi     | C1             |        5 | E1                |                  2 |\
|      7 | Sanjay     | VP             |        9 | E2                |                  1 |\
|      8 | Ryan       | C4             |        5 | E1                |                  2 |\
|      9 | Sagar      | C2             |        6 | E1                |                  3 |\
|     11 | Rahgu      | C5             |        9 | E2                |                  1 |\
+--------+------------+----------------+----------+-------------------+--------------------+\
8 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
6.Write a query to display the first name, last name, salary, bonus (calculated 3 percent bonus per salary value) and \
weekly salary (including bonus) of all employees and round the weekly salary to remove the decimals. Sort the result based on the salary in descending order. \
Hint: Formula for calculating bonus is salary*.03 and for calculating weekly salary is (salary/52) + ((salary*.03)/52)\
Use "BONUS" as alias name for displaying bonus and "WEEKLY_SALARY" as alias name for displaying the weekly salary with bonus.\
\
SELECT e.first_name, e.last_name, e.salary, 0.3*(e.salary) as 'BONUS', round(((e.salary/52) + ((e.salary*.03)/52)),0) as 'WEEKLY_SALARY'\
FROM emp_details e\
ORDER BY e.salary DESC;\
\
\
+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------------+\
| first_name | last_name | salary    | BONUS     | WEEKLY_SALARY |\
+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------------+\
| Sanjay     | Mittal    | 100000.00 | 30000.000 |          1981 |\
| Rahgu      | Gupta     |  70000.00 | 21000.000 |          1387 |\
| Tony       | Stark     |  60000.00 | 18000.000 |          1188 |\
| Prachi     | Sharma    |  50000.00 | 15000.000 |           990 |\
| Ryan       | Sharma    |  50000.00 | 15000.000 |           990 |\
| Ram        | Kumar     |  35000.00 | 10500.000 |           693 |\
| John       | Gilbert   |  25000.00 |  7500.000 |           495 |\
| Sagar      | Sharma    |  25000.00 |  7500.000 |           495 |\
| Ravi       | Dutta     |  20000.00 |  6000.000 |           396 |\
| Rahul      | Kumar     |  15000.00 |  4500.000 |           297 |\
| Mark       | Stuart    |  10000.00 |  3000.000 |           198 |\
| Sam        | Saha      |  10000.00 |  3000.000 |           198 |\
+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------------+\
12 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
7.Write a query to display the employee id and employee name of employee who is a developer in google testing team.\
Display the employee name in below format ie first character of first name dot last name. \
Example Assume first name is "Ram" and last name is "Kumar" then employee name will be "R.Kumar". \
Hint: Use "EMPLOYEE_NAME" as alias name for displaying employee name.\
Example, \
emp_id    EMPLOYEE_NAME\
1000        R.Kumar\
\
\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.last_name, concat(left(e.first_name,1), '.', e.last_name) as 'EMPLOYEE_NAME'\
FROM emp_details e;\
+--------+------------+-----------+---------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | last_name | EMPLOYEE_NAME |\
+--------+------------+-----------+---------------+\
|      1 | Sam        | Saha      | S.Saha        |\
|      2 | John       | Gilbert   | J.Gilbert     |\
|      3 | Rahul      | Kumar     | R.Kumar       |\
|      4 | Ram        | Kumar     | R.Kumar       |\
|      5 | Mark       | Stuart    | M.Stuart      |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Sharma    | P.Sharma      |\
|      7 | Sanjay     | Mittal    | S.Mittal      |\
|      8 | Ryan       | Sharma    | R.Sharma      |\
|      9 | Sagar      | Sharma    | S.Sharma      |\
|     10 | Tony       | Stark     | T.Stark       |\
|     11 | Rahgu      | Gupta     | R.Gupta       |\
|     12 | Ravi       | Dutta     | R.Dutta       |\
+--------+------------+-----------+---------------+\
12 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
mysql> SELECT e.emp_id, concat(left(e.first_name,1), '.', e.last_name) as 'EMPLOYEE_NAME'\
    -> FROM emp_details e, dept_details d, role r, project_alloc a\
    -> WHERE e.dept_no=d.dept_no\
    ->  AND e.emp_id=a.emp_id\
    ->  AND a.role_id=r.role_id;\
+--------+---------------+\
| emp_id | EMPLOYEE_NAME |\
+--------+---------------+\
|      6 | P.Sharma      |\
|      4 | R.Kumar       |\
|      1 | S.Saha        |\
|     10 | T.Stark       |\
|      5 | M.Stuart      |\
|     11 | R.Gupta       |\
|      6 | P.Sharma      |\
|      5 | M.Stuart      |\
|      1 | S.Saha        |\
|      7 | S.Mittal      |\
|      8 | R.Sharma      |\
|      3 | R.Kumar       |\
+--------+---------------+\
12 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, concat(left(e.first_name,1), '.', e.last_name) as 'EMPLOYEE_NAME'\
FROM emp_details e, dept_details d, role r, project_alloc a\
WHERE e.dept_no=d.dept_no \
	AND e.emp_id=a.emp_id \
	AND a.role_id=r.role_id\
	AND d.dept_name='Facebook Developer' \
	AND r.role_name='Developer';\
\
\
+--------+---------------+\
| emp_id | EMPLOYEE_NAME |\
+--------+---------------+\
|      1 | S.Saha        |\
|      8 | R.Sharma      |\
+--------+---------------+\
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
8.Write a query to find the all employees who are not currently in projects and are whose skill is 'DES' and proficiency level is 'E1' and \
display the employee ID, employee first name, skill id, proficiency level and experience in years of those employees. \
Hint: Employees who are not currently in projects means they either got released from the project or not at all allocated to any project.\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, s.skill_id, s.skill_name, s.proficiency_level, s.year_of_experience\
FROM emp_details e, skill s\
WHERE e.skill_id=s.skill_id AND e.emp_id NOT IN (SELECT emp_id FROM project_alloc);\
\
\
+--------+------------+----------+------------+-------------------+--------------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | skill_id | skill_name | proficiency_level | year_of_experience |\
+--------+------------+----------+------------+-------------------+--------------------+\
|      2 | John       |        6 | DES        | E1                |                  3 |\
|      9 | Sagar      |        6 | DES        | E1                |                  3 |\
|     12 | Ravi       |        7 | OOP        | E1                |                  5 |\
+--------+------------+----------+------------+-------------------+--------------------+\
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, s.skill_id, s.skill_name, s.proficiency_level, s.year_of_experience\
FROM emp_details e, skill s\
WHERE e.skill_id=s.skill_id \
	AND s.skill_name='DES'\
	AND s.proficiency_level='E1'\
	AND e.emp_id NOT IN (SELECT emp_id FROM project_alloc);\
\
+--------+------------+----------+------------+-------------------+--------------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | skill_id | skill_name | proficiency_level | year_of_experience |\
+--------+------------+----------+------------+-------------------+--------------------+\
|      2 | John       |        6 | DES        | E1                |                  3 |\
|      9 | Sagar      |        6 | DES        | E1                |                  3 |\
+--------+------------+----------+------------+-------------------+--------------------+\
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, s.skill_id, s.proficiency_level, s.year_of_experience\
FROM emp_details e, skill s\
WHERE e.skill_id=s.skill_id \
	AND s.skill_name='DES'\
	AND s.proficiency_level='E1'\
	AND e.emp_id NOT IN (SELECT emp_id FROM project_alloc);\
\
\
+--------+------------+----------+-------------------+--------------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | skill_id | proficiency_level | year_of_experience |\
+--------+------------+----------+-------------------+--------------------+\
|      2 | John       |        6 | E1                |                  3 |\
|      9 | Sagar      |        6 | E1                |                  3 |\
+--------+------------+----------+-------------------+--------------------+\
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
9.Write a query to find all people who have a 'JAV' skill and 'E2' proficiency level and display the distinct employee first name, \
project ID, role ID, skill ID, proficiency level and release date of those peoples who are currently in projects.\
Hint: Employees who are  currently in projects means they should not have got released.\
\
SELECT DISTINCT e.first_name, a.proj_id, a.role_id, s.skill_id, s.proficiency_level, s.skill_name, s.proficiency_level\
FROM emp_details e, skill s, project_alloc a\
WHERE e.skill_id=s.skill_id\
	AND e.emp_id=a.emp_id;\
\
\
+------------+---------+---------+----------+-------------------+------------+-------------------+\
| first_name | proj_id | role_id | skill_id | proficiency_level | skill_name | proficiency_level |\
+------------+---------+---------+----------+-------------------+------------+-------------------+\
| Prachi     |       3 |       1 |        5 | E1                | JAV        | E1                |\
| Ram        |       5 |       2 |        9 | E2                | JAV        | E2                |\
| Sam        |       5 |       2 |        1 | E0                | TEST       | E0                |\
| Tony       |       4 |       4 |        1 | E0                | TEST       | E0                |\
| Mark       |       3 |       2 |        3 | E0                | OOP        | E0                |\
| Rahgu      |       5 |       5 |        9 | E2                | JAV        | E2                |\
| Mark       |       1 |       2 |        3 | E0                | OOP        | E0                |\
| Sam        |       5 |       3 |        1 | E0                | TEST       | E0                |\
| Sanjay     |       4 |       6 |        9 | E2                | JAV        | E2                |\
| Ryan       |       2 |       2 |        5 | E1                | JAV        | E1                |\
| Rahul      |       1 |       1 |        5 | E1                | JAV        | E1                |\
+------------+---------+---------+----------+-------------------+------------+-------------------+\
11 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
SELECT DISTINCT e.first_name, a.proj_id, a.role_id, s.skill_id, s.proficiency_level, s.skill_name, s.proficiency_level\
FROM emp_details e, skill s, project_alloc a\
WHERE e.skill_id=s.skill_id\
	AND e.emp_id=a.emp_id\
	AND s.skill_name='JAV'\
	AND s.proficiency_level='E2';\
\
+------------+---------+---------+----------+-------------------+------------+-------------------+\
| first_name | proj_id | role_id | skill_id | proficiency_level | skill_name | proficiency_level |\
+------------+---------+---------+----------+-------------------+------------+-------------------+\
| Ram        |       5 |       2 |        9 | E2                | JAV        | E2                |\
| Rahgu      |       5 |       5 |        9 | E2                | JAV        | E2                |\
| Sanjay     |       4 |       6 |        9 | E2                | JAV        | E2                |\
+------------+---------+---------+----------+-------------------+------------+-------------------+\
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
\
SELECT DISTINCT e.first_name, a.proj_id, a.role_id, s.skill_id, s.proficiency_level\
FROM emp_details e, skill s, project_alloc a\
WHERE e.skill_id=s.skill_id\
	AND e.emp_id=a.emp_id\
	AND s.skill_name='JAV'\
	AND s.proficiency_level='E2';\
\
+------------+---------+---------+----------+-------------------+\
| first_name | proj_id | role_id | skill_id | proficiency_level |\
+------------+---------+---------+----------+-------------------+\
| Ram        |       5 |       2 |        9 | E2                |\
| Rahgu      |       5 |       5 |        9 | E2                |\
| Sanjay     |       4 |       6 |        9 | E2                |\
+------------+---------+---------+----------+-------------------+\
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
10.Write a query to display the designation id, designation name and total salary of the employees who joined the company after 1-JAN-2004 whose total salary is greater than 50000 for each designation. \
Hint: Use TOTALSALARY as alias name for displaying the total salary of the employees for each designation.\
\
\
\
SELECT ds.designation_id, ds.designation_name, e.emp_id, e.join_date, e.salary\
FROM designation ds, emp_details e\
WHERE ds.designation_id=e.designation_id;\
\
+----------------+------------------+--------+------------+-----------+\
| designation_id | designation_name | emp_id | join_date  | salary    |\
+----------------+------------------+--------+------------+-----------+\
| C1             | Senior Manager   |      3 | 2006-08-19 |  15000.00 |\
| C1             | Senior Manager   |      6 | 2002-04-01 |  50000.00 |\
| C1             | Senior Manager   |     12 | 2002-05-06 |  20000.00 |\
| C2             | Programmer       |      5 | 2009-05-25 |  10000.00 |\
| C2             | Programmer       |      9 | 2007-05-15 |  25000.00 |\
| C3             | Manager          |      4 | 2010-05-14 |  35000.00 |\
| C3             | Manager          |     10 | 2004-05-26 |  60000.00 |\
| C4             | Designer         |      1 | 2005-04-02 |  10000.00 |\
| C4             | Designer         |      8 | 2009-01-01 |  50000.00 |\
| VP             | Vice President   |      7 | 2001-05-17 | 100000.00 |\
+----------------+------------------+--------+------------+-----------+\
10 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
SELECT ds.designation_id, ds.designation_name, e.emp_id, e.join_date, e.salary\
FROM designation ds, emp_details e\
WHERE ds.designation_id=e.designation_id AND e.join_date>'2004-01-01';\
\
+----------------+------------------+--------+------------+----------+\
| designation_id | designation_name | emp_id | join_date  | salary   |\
+----------------+------------------+--------+------------+----------+\
| C1             | Senior Manager   |      3 | 2006-08-19 | 15000.00 |\
| C2             | Programmer       |      5 | 2009-05-25 | 10000.00 |\
| C2             | Programmer       |      9 | 2007-05-15 | 25000.00 |\
| C3             | Manager          |      4 | 2010-05-14 | 35000.00 |\
| C3             | Manager          |     10 | 2004-05-26 | 60000.00 |\
| C4             | Designer         |      1 | 2005-04-02 | 10000.00 |\
| C4             | Designer         |      8 | 2009-01-01 | 50000.00 |\
+----------------+------------------+--------+------------+----------+\
7 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
SELECT ds.designation_id, ds.designation_name, e.emp_id, e.join_date, sum(e.salary)\
FROM designation ds, emp_details e\
WHERE ds.designation_id=e.designation_id AND e.join_date>'2004-01-01'\
GROUP BY ds.designation_id;\
\
+----------------+------------------+--------+------------+---------------+\
| designation_id | designation_name | emp_id | join_date  | sum(e.salary) |\
+----------------+------------------+--------+------------+---------------+\
| C1             | Senior Manager   |      3 | 2006-08-19 |      15000.00 |\
| C2             | Programmer       |      5 | 2009-05-25 |      35000.00 |\
| C3             | Manager          |      4 | 2010-05-14 |      95000.00 |\
| C4             | Designer         |      1 | 2005-04-02 |      60000.00 |\
+----------------+------------------+--------+------------+---------------+\
4 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
FIANL>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
\
SELECT ds.designation_id, ds.designation_name, sum(e.salary) as 'TOTAL_SALARY'\
FROM designation ds, emp_details e\
WHERE ds.designation_id=e.designation_id AND e.join_date>'2004-01-01'\
GROUP BY ds.designation_id\
HAVING TOTAL_SALARY>50000;\
\
+----------------+------------------+--------------+\
| designation_id | designation_name | TOTAL_SALARY |\
+----------------+------------------+--------------+\
| C3             | Manager          |     95000.00 |\
| C4             | Designer         |     60000.00 |\
+----------------+------------------+--------------+\
2 rows in set (0.02 sec)\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
11.Write a query to find the all employees who are currently in projects and whose designation is 'C2' and display the employee ID, employee first name, designation ID, join date and supervisor ID of the employees. \
Hint: Employees who are currently in projects means they are not released from project.\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.designation_id, e.join_date, e.supervisor_id\
FROM emp_details e\
WHERE e.emp_id IN (SELECT DISTINCT emp_id FROM project_alloc);\
\
+--------+------------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_id | join_date  | supervisor_id |\
+--------+------------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
|      1 | Sam        | C4             | 2005-04-02 |             3 |\
|      3 | Rahul      | C1             | 2006-08-19 |             2 |\
|      4 | Ram        | C3             | 2010-05-14 |             2 |\
|      5 | Mark       | C2             | 2009-05-25 |             4 |\
|      6 | Prachi     | C1             | 2002-04-01 |             4 |\
|      7 | Sanjay     | VP             | 2001-05-17 |          NULL |\
|      8 | Ryan       | C4             | 2009-01-01 |             7 |\
|     10 | Tony       | C3             | 2004-05-26 |             4 |\
|     11 | Rahgu      | C5             | 2002-04-01 |             6 |\
+--------+------------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
9 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.designation_id, e.join_date, e.supervisor_id\
FROM emp_details e\
WHERE e.designation_id='C2'\
	AND e.emp_id IN (SELECT DISTINCT emp_id FROM project_alloc);\
\
\
+--------+------------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_id | join_date  | supervisor_id |\
+--------+------------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
|      5 | Mark       | C2             | 2009-05-25 |             4 |\
+--------+------------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
1 row in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
12.Write a query to display the employee id, employee first name, last name, designation id, join date and  supervisor id of all employees who report to an employee 'Ram' and joined the company between&nbsp; '01-JAN-07' and '01-JAN-09' and who are not currently in any project (got released from projects). \
Hint: Employees who are not currently in projects means they either got released from the project or not at all allocated to any project.\
\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.last_name, e.designation_id, e.join_date, e.supervisor_id\
FROM emp_details e\
WHERE e.supervisor_id IN (SELECT emp_id FROM emp_details WHERE first_name='Ram');\
\
+--------+------------+-----------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | last_name | designation_id | join_date  | supervisor_id |\
+--------+------------+-----------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
|      5 | Mark       | Stuart    | C2             | 2009-05-25 |             4 |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Sharma    | C1             | 2002-04-01 |             4 |\
|     10 | Tony       | Stark     | C3             | 2004-05-26 |             4 |\
+--------+------------+-----------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.last_name, e.designation_id, e.join_date, e.supervisor_id\
FROM emp_details e\
WHERE e.supervisor_id IN (SELECT emp_id FROM emp_details WHERE first_name='Ram')\
	AND e.join_date BETWEEN '2002-01-01' and '2010-01-01';\
\
+--------+------------+-----------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | last_name | designation_id | join_date  | supervisor_id |\
+--------+------------+-----------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
|      5 | Mark       | Stuart    | C2             | 2009-05-25 |             4 |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Sharma    | C1             | 2002-04-01 |             4 |\
|     10 | Tony       | Stark     | C3             | 2004-05-26 |             4 |\
+--------+------------+-----------+----------------+------------+---------------+\
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.last_name, e.designation_id, e.join_date, e.supervisor_id\
FROM emp_details e\
WHERE e.supervisor_id IN (SELECT emp_id FROM emp_details WHERE first_name='Ram')\
	AND e.join_date BETWEEN '2002-01-01' and '2010-01-01'\
	AND e.emp_id NOT IN (SELECT DISTINCT emp_id FROM project_alloc);\
\
Empty set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
13.Write a query to display the employee ID, employee first name,  supervisor first name, designation name, project ID,  project name, role id and role name of all employees for all the current and previous projects of all employees reporting to an employee 'Ram'.\
Hint: Use SUPERVISOR_NAME as alias name for displaying the supervisor first name.\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, s.first_name as 'SUPERVISOR_NAME', ds.designation_name, p.proj_id, p.proj_name, r.role_id, r.role_name\
FROM emp_details e, emp_details s, designation ds, project_details p, project_alloc a, role r\
WHERE e.designation_id=ds.designation_id \
	AND e.emp_id=a.emp_id\
	AND a.proj_id=p.proj_id\
	AND a.role_id=r.role_id\
	AND e.supervisor_id=s.emp_id;\
\
\
+--------+------------+-----------------+------------------+---------+-----------+---------+----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | SUPERVISOR_NAME | designation_name | proj_id | proj_name | role_id | role_name      |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+------------------+---------+-----------+---------+----------------+\
|      5 | Mark       | Ram             | Programmer       |       1 | FMS       |       2 | Developer      |\
|      3 | Rahul      | John            | Senior Manager   |       1 | FMS       |       1 | System Analyst |\
|      8 | Ryan       | Sanjay          | Designer         |       2 | HMS       |       2 | Developer      |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Ram             | Senior Manager   |       3 | LMS       |       1 | System Analyst |\
|      5 | Mark       | Ram             | Programmer       |       3 | LMS       |       2 | Developer      |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Ram             | Senior Manager   |       3 | LMS       |       1 | System Analyst |\
|     10 | Tony       | Ram             | Manager          |       4 | UMS       |       4 | Designer       |\
|      4 | Ram        | John            | Manager          |       5 | GMS       |       2 | Developer      |\
|      1 | Sam        | Rahul           | Designer         |       5 | GMS       |       2 | Developer      |\
|      1 | Sam        | Rahul           | Designer         |       5 | GMS       |       3 | Tester         |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+------------------+---------+-----------+---------+----------------+\
10 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, s.first_name as 'SUPERVISOR_NAME', ds.designation_name, p.proj_id, p.proj_name, r.role_id, r.role_name\
FROM emp_details e, emp_details s, designation ds, project_details p, project_alloc a, role r\
WHERE e.designation_id=ds.designation_id \
	AND e.emp_id=a.emp_id\
	AND a.proj_id=p.proj_id\
	AND a.role_id=r.role_id\
	AND e.supervisor_id=s.emp_id\
	AND s.first_name='Ram';\
\
\
+--------+------------+-----------------+------------------+---------+-----------+---------+----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | SUPERVISOR_NAME | designation_name | proj_id | proj_name | role_id | role_name      |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+------------------+---------+-----------+---------+----------------+\
|      5 | Mark       | Ram             | Programmer       |       1 | FMS       |       2 | Developer      |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Ram             | Senior Manager   |       3 | LMS       |       1 | System Analyst |\
|      5 | Mark       | Ram             | Programmer       |       3 | LMS       |       2 | Developer      |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Ram             | Senior Manager   |       3 | LMS       |       1 | System Analyst |\
|     10 | Tony       | Ram             | Manager          |       4 | UMS       |       4 | Designer       |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+------------------+---------+-----------+---------+----------------+\
5 rows in set (0.01 sec)\
\
\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
\
SELECT DISTINCT e.emp_id, e.first_name, s.first_name as 'SUPERVISOR_NAME', ds.designation_name, p.proj_id, p.proj_name, r.role_id, r.role_name\
FROM emp_details e, emp_details s, designation ds, project_details p, project_alloc a, role r\
WHERE e.designation_id=ds.designation_id \
	AND e.emp_id=a.emp_id\
	AND a.proj_id=p.proj_id\
	AND a.role_id=r.role_id\
	AND e.supervisor_id=s.emp_id\
	AND s.first_name='Ram';\
\
\
+--------+------------+-----------------+------------------+---------+-----------+---------+----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | SUPERVISOR_NAME | designation_name | proj_id | proj_name | role_id | role_name      |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+------------------+---------+-----------+---------+----------------+\
|      5 | Mark       | Ram             | Programmer       |       1 | FMS       |       2 | Developer      |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Ram             | Senior Manager   |       3 | LMS       |       1 | System Analyst |\
|      5 | Mark       | Ram             | Programmer       |       3 | LMS       |       2 | Developer      |\
|     10 | Tony       | Ram             | Manager          |       4 | UMS       |       4 | Designer       |\
+--------+------------+-----------------+------------------+---------+-----------+---------+----------------+\
4 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
14.Write a query to display the employee id, employee first name, project ID and project name of the employees who have worked on the same project in the most number of roles.\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, p.proj_id, p.proj_name, a.role_id\
FROM emp_details e, project_details p, project_alloc a\
WHERE e.emp_id=a.emp_id\
	AND a.proj_id=p.proj_id;\
\
\
+--------+------------+---------+-----------+---------+\
| emp_id | first_name | proj_id | proj_name | role_id |\
+--------+------------+---------+-----------+---------+\
|      5 | Mark       |       1 | FMS       |       2 |\
|      3 | Rahul      |       1 | FMS       |       1 |\
|      8 | Ryan       |       2 | HMS       |       2 |\
|      6 | Prachi     |       3 | LMS       |       1 |\
|      5 | Mark       |       3 | LMS       |       2 |\
|      6 | Prachi     |       3 | LMS       |       1 |\
|     10 | Tony       |       4 | UMS       |       4 |\
|      7 | Sanjay     |       4 | UMS       |       6 |\
|      4 | Ram        |       5 | GMS       |       2 |\
|      1 | Sam        |       5 | GMS       |       2 |\
|     11 | Rahgu      |       5 | GMS       |       5 |\
|      1 | Sam        |       5 | GMS       |       3 |\
+--------+------------+---------+-----------+---------+\
12 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, p.proj_id, p.proj_name, count(a.role_id)\
FROM emp_details e, project_details p, project_alloc a\
WHERE e.emp_id=a.emp_id	AND a.proj_id=p.proj_id\
GROUP BY e.emp_id;\
\
+--------+------------+---------+-----------+------------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | proj_id | proj_name | count(a.role_id) |\
+--------+------------+---------+-----------+------------------+\
|      1 | Sam        |       5 | GMS       |                2 |\
|      3 | Rahul      |       1 | FMS       |                1 |\
|      4 | Ram        |       5 | GMS       |                1 |\
|      5 | Mark       |       1 | FMS       |                2 |\
|      6 | Prachi     |       3 | LMS       |                2 |\
|      7 | Sanjay     |       4 | UMS       |                1 |\
|      8 | Ryan       |       2 | HMS       |                1 |\
|     10 | Tony       |       4 | UMS       |                1 |\
|     11 | Rahgu      |       5 | GMS       |                1 |\
+--------+------------+---------+-----------+------------------+\
9 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> .. M NOT SURE ABOUT THIS QUERY -santy\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, p.proj_id, p.proj_name, count(a.role_id)\
FROM emp_details e, project_details p, project_alloc a\
WHERE e.emp_id=a.emp_id	AND a.proj_id=p.proj_id\
GROUP BY e.emp_id\
HAVING count(p.proj_id) IN (	SELECT max(c) \
					FROM (	SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, count(p.proj_id) c, p.proj_name, count(a.role_id)\
						FROM emp_details e, project_details p, project_alloc a\
						WHERE e.emp_id=a.emp_id	AND a.proj_id=p.proj_id\
						GROUP BY e.emp_id\
		              		)a1\
\
	\
			)\
\
	AND count(a.role_id) IN (	SELECT max(c) \
					FROM (	SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, p.proj_id, p.proj_name, count(a.role_id) c\
						FROM emp_details e, project_details p, project_alloc a\
						WHERE e.emp_id=a.emp_id	AND a.proj_id=p.proj_id\
						GROUP BY e.emp_id\
					)a12\
			   );\
\
\
+--------+------------+---------+-----------+------------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | proj_id | proj_name | count(a.role_id) |\
+--------+------------+---------+-----------+------------------+\
|      1 | Sam        |       5 | GMS       |                2 |\
|      5 | Mark       |       1 | FMS       |                2 |\
|      6 | Prachi     |       3 | LMS       |                2 |\
+--------+------------+---------+-----------+------------------+\
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
15.Write a query to display the name, join date of the employees whose join date is greater than 01-JAN-2004 and sort the result based on the employee name in ascending order.  \
Display the name as, First Character of first name, Dot, Last Name.\
Example: Assume first name is "Ram" and last name is "Kumar" then display employee name as "R.Kumar"\
Hint: Use the EMPLOYEE_NAME as alias name for displaying the employees name.\
\
\
\
SELECT e.first_name, e.join_date\
FROM emp_details e\
WHERE e.join_date>'2004-01-01'\
ORDER BY e.first_name ASC;\
\
+------------+------------+\
| first_name | join_date  |\
+------------+------------+\
| John       | 2008-05-08 |\
| Mark       | 2009-05-25 |\
| Rahul      | 2006-08-19 |\
| Ram        | 2010-05-14 |\
| Ryan       | 2009-01-01 |\
| Sagar      | 2007-05-15 |\
| Sam        | 2005-04-02 |\
| Tony       | 2004-05-26 |\
+------------+------------+\
8 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
\
SELECT concat(substr(e.first_name, 1,1), '.', e.last_name) as EMPLOYEE_NAME, e.join_date\
FROM emp_details e\
WHERE e.join_date>'2004-01-01'\
ORDER BY e.first_name ASC;\
\
+---------------+------------+\
| EMPLOYEE_NAME | join_date  |\
+---------------+------------+\
| J.Gilbert     | 2008-05-08 |\
| M.Stuart      | 2009-05-25 |\
| R.Kumar       | 2006-08-19 |\
| R.Kumar       | 2010-05-14 |\
| R.Sharma      | 2009-01-01 |\
| S.Sharma      | 2007-05-15 |\
| S.Saha        | 2005-04-02 |\
| T.Stark       | 2004-05-26 |\
+---------------+------------+\
8 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
16.Write a query to display the distinct employee id, employee first name, designation name and supervisor ID of all employees who work for the project "Google Testing". \
Hint: There can be more than one employee working in same project with multiple roles, display their details only once.\
\
\
SELECT DISTINCT e.emp_id, e.first_name, ds.designation_name, e.supervisor_id, d.dept_name\
FROM emp_details e, designation ds, dept_details d\
WHERE e.designation_id=ds.designation_id\
	AND e.dept_no=d.dept_no;\
\
+--------+------------+------------------+---------------+----------------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_name | supervisor_id | dept_name            |\
+--------+------------+------------------+---------------+----------------------+\
|      9 | Sagar      | Programmer       |             3 | Google Testing       |\
|     12 | Ravi       | Senior Manager   |             6 | Google Testing       |\
|      1 | Sam        | Designer         |             3 | Facebook Developer   |\
|      3 | Rahul      | Senior Manager   |             2 | Facebook Developer   |\
|      8 | Ryan       | Designer         |             7 | Facebook Developer   |\
|      4 | Ram        | Manager          |             2 | Cognizant Programmer |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Senior Manager   |             4 | Microsoft Developer  |\
|      7 | Sanjay     | Vice President   |          NULL | Microsoft Developer  |\
|      5 | Mark       | Programmer       |             4 | Yahoo Tester         |\
|     10 | Tony       | Manager          |             4 | Yahoo Tester         |\
+--------+------------+------------------+---------------+----------------------+\
10 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, ds.designation_name, e.supervisor_id, p.proj_name, a.role_id\
FROM emp_details e, designation ds, project_details p, project_alloc a\
WHERE e.designation_id=ds.designation_id\
	AND e.emp_id=a.emp_id\
	AND a.proj_id=p.proj_id;\
\
\
+--------+------------+------------------+---------------+-----------+---------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_name | supervisor_id | proj_name | role_id |\
+--------+------------+------------------+---------------+-----------+---------+\
|      5 | Mark       | Programmer       |             4 | FMS       |       2 |\
|      3 | Rahul      | Senior Manager   |             2 | FMS       |       1 |\
|      8 | Ryan       | Designer         |             7 | HMS       |       2 |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Senior Manager   |             4 | LMS       |       1 |\
|      5 | Mark       | Programmer       |             4 | LMS       |       2 |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Senior Manager   |             4 | LMS       |       1 |\
|     10 | Tony       | Manager          |             4 | UMS       |       4 |\
|      7 | Sanjay     | Vice President   |          NULL | UMS       |       6 |\
|      4 | Ram        | Manager          |             2 | GMS       |       2 |\
|      1 | Sam        | Designer         |             3 | GMS       |       2 |\
|      1 | Sam        | Designer         |             3 | GMS       |       3 |\
+--------+------------+------------------+---------------+-----------+---------+\
11 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
IN GMS there are 3 entries .. but SAM is repeated ....so in output onlt 2 entries wud b there....\
\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
\
\
SELECT DISTINCT e.emp_id, e.first_name, ds.designation_name, e.supervisor_id, p.proj_name\
FROM emp_details e, designation ds, project_details p, project_alloc a\
WHERE e.designation_id=ds.designation_id\
	AND e.emp_id=a.emp_id\
	AND a.proj_id=p.proj_id\
	AND p.proj_name='GMS'\
GROUP BY e.emp_id;\
\
\
+--------+------------+------------------+---------------+-----------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_name | supervisor_id | proj_name |\
+--------+------------+------------------+---------------+-----------+\
|      1 | Sam        | Designer         |             3 | GMS       |\
|      4 | Ram        | Manager          |             2 | GMS       |\
+--------+------------+------------------+---------------+-----------+\
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
17.Write a query to find the employee Id, first name, designation name, project name and role name of the employees who are second level reportees of a given employee 'Mark'. \
Example, Assume, employee 'A' reports to "Mark" and employee "B" and "C" reports to employee "A". Here, display the above details for employee "B" and "C".\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, ds.designation_name, p.proj_name, r.role_name\
FROM emp_details e, designation ds, project_details p, project_alloc a, role r\
WHERE e.designation_id=ds.designation_id\
	AND e.emp_id=a.emp_id\
	AND p.proj_id=a.proj_id\
	AND a.role_id=r.role_id;\
\
+--------+------------+------------------+-----------+-------------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_name | proj_name | role_name         |\
+--------+------------+------------------+-----------+-------------------+\
|      5 | Mark       | Programmer       | FMS       | Developer         |\
|      3 | Rahul      | Senior Manager   | FMS       | System Analyst    |\
|      8 | Ryan       | Designer         | HMS       | Developer         |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Senior Manager   | LMS       | System Analyst    |\
|      5 | Mark       | Programmer       | LMS       | Developer         |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Senior Manager   | LMS       | System Analyst    |\
|     10 | Tony       | Manager          | UMS       | Designer          |\
|      7 | Sanjay     | Vice President   | UMS       | Database Designer |\
|      4 | Ram        | Manager          | GMS       | Developer         |\
|      1 | Sam        | Designer         | GMS       | Developer         |\
|      1 | Sam        | Designer         | GMS       | Tester            |\
+--------+------------+------------------+-----------+-------------------+\
11 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
....call this table as TABLE_1.. we will use this table in fianl query\
\
\
\
DISPLAYING ALL SECOND LEVEL EMP...\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, l1.first_name 'LEVEL_1 Jr_MGR', l2.first_name 'LEVEL_2 Sr_MGR'\
FROM emp_details e, emp_details l1, emp_details l2\
WHERE e.supervisor_id=l1.emp_id\
	AND l1.supervisor_id=l2.emp_id;\
\
+--------+------------+----------------+----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | LEVEL_1 Jr_MGR | LEVEL_2 Sr_MGR |\
+--------+------------+----------------+----------------+\
|      1 | Sam        | Rahul          | John           |\
|      3 | Rahul      | John           | Sanjay         |\
|      4 | Ram        | John           | Sanjay         |\
|      5 | Mark       | Ram            | John           |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Ram            | John           |\
|      9 | Sagar      | Rahul          | John           |\
|     10 | Tony       | Ram            | John           |\
|     11 | Rahgu      | Prachi         | Ram            |\
|     12 | Ravi       | Prachi         | Ram            |\
+--------+------------+----------------+----------------+\
9 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
DISPLAYING SECOND LEVEL REPORTEES TO MARK/JOHN.....\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, l1.first_name 'LEVEL_1 Jr_MGR', l2.first_name 'LEVEL_2 Sr_MGR'\
FROM emp_details e, emp_details l1, emp_details l2\
WHERE e.supervisor_id=l1.emp_id\
	AND l1.supervisor_id=l2.emp_id\
	AND l2.first_name='John';\
\
+--------+------------+----------------+----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | LEVEL_1 Jr_MGR | LEVEL_2 Sr_MGR |\
+--------+------------+----------------+----------------+\
|      1 | Sam        | Rahul          | John           |\
|      5 | Mark       | Ram            | John           |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Ram            | John           |\
|      9 | Sagar      | Rahul          | John           |\
|     10 | Tony       | Ram            | John           |\
+--------+------------+----------------+----------------+\
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
DISPLAYING ONLY NAMES OF SECOND REPORTEES>>>>>>>>\
\
SELECT e.first_name\
FROM emp_details e, emp_details l1, emp_details l2\
WHERE e.supervisor_id=l1.emp_id\
	AND l1.supervisor_id=l2.emp_id\
	AND l2.first_name='John';\
\
\
+------------+\
| first_name |\
+------------+\
| Sam        |\
| Mark       |\
| Prachi     |\
| Sagar      |\
| Tony       |\
+------------+\
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, ds.designation_name, p.proj_name, r.role_name\
FROM emp_details e, designation ds, project_details p, project_alloc a, role r\
WHERE e.designation_id=ds.designation_id\
	AND e.emp_id=a.emp_id\
	AND p.proj_id=a.proj_id\
	AND a.role_id=r.role_id\
	AND e.emp_id IN (	SELECT e.emp_id\
				FROM emp_details e, emp_details l1, emp_details l2\
				WHERE e.supervisor_id=l1.emp_id\
					AND l1.supervisor_id=l2.emp_id\
					AND l2.first_name='John'\
			);\
\
\
\
+--------+------------+------------------+-----------+----------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_name | proj_name | role_name      |\
+--------+------------+------------------+-----------+----------------+\
|      5 | Mark       | Programmer       | FMS       | Developer      |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Senior Manager   | LMS       | System Analyst |\
|      5 | Mark       | Programmer       | LMS       | Developer      |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Senior Manager   | LMS       | System Analyst |\
|     10 | Tony       | Manager          | UMS       | Designer       |\
|      1 | Sam        | Designer         | GMS       | Developer      |\
|      1 | Sam        | Designer         | GMS       | Tester         |\
+--------+------------+------------------+-----------+----------------+\
7 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
18.Write a query to find the employees who have not worked for any projects till now and who are second level reportees of a given employee 'Mark'. Display the employee Id, first name and designation name of the employees.\
Hint: Display all the employee details who have not working/worked for any projects. \
Example, Assume, employee 'A' reports to "Mark" and employee "B" and "C" reports to employee "A". Here, display the above details for employee "B" and "C".\
\
\
SAME AS ABOVE...\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, ds.designation_name\
FROM emp_details e, designation ds\
WHERE e.designation_id=ds.designation_id\
	AND e.emp_id NOT IN (	SELECT emp_id \
				FROM project_alloc\
			    )\
	AND e.emp_id IN (	SELECT e.emp_id\
				FROM emp_details e, emp_details l1, emp_details l2\
				WHERE e.supervisor_id=l1.emp_id\
					AND l1.supervisor_id=l2.emp_id\
					AND l2.first_name='John'\
			);\
\
+--------+------------+------------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_name |\
+--------+------------+------------------+\
|      9 | Sagar      | Programmer       |\
+--------+------------+------------------+\
1 row in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
19.Write a query to display the designation id, total salary for designation C1,  total salary for designation C2,  total salary for designation C3,  total salary for designation C4,  total salary for designation VP and  total salary for all designations in the below format. \
\
DESIGNATION_ID 	DESGN_C1 	DESGN_C2 	DESGN_C3 	DESGN_C4 	DESGN_VP 	TOTAL\
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
C1 		196000 		0 		0 	 	0 		0 		196000\
C2 		0 		78000 		0 		0 		0 		78000\
C3 		0 		0 		96000 		0 		0 		96000\
C4 		0 		0 		0 		110000 		0 		110000\
VP 		0 		0 		0 		0 		140000 		140000\
\
Hint: Use DESGN_C1 as alias name for displaying total salary for designation C1 and DESGN_C2 for displaying total salary for designation C2 and DESGN_C3 for displaying, total salary for designation C3 and DESGN_C4 and for displaying total salary for designation C4 and DESGN_VP and for displaying total salary for designation VP and TOTAL and for displaying total salary.\
\
\
\
SELECT e.designation_id, sum(e.salary)\
FROM emp_details e\
GROUP BY e.designation_id;\
+----------------+---------------+\
| designation_id | sum(e.salary) |\
+----------------+---------------+\
| C1             |      85000.00 |\
| C2             |      35000.00 |\
| C3             |      95000.00 |\
| C4             |      60000.00 |\
| C5             |      95000.00 |\
| VP             |     100000.00 |\
+----------------+---------------+\
6 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
SELECT e.designation_id, c1.DESGN_C1, c2.DESGN_C2, c3.DESGN_C3, c4.DESGN_C4, vp.DESGN_VP\
FROM emp_details e, \
	(SELECT designation_id, sum(salary) as 'DESGN_C1' FROM emp_details WHERE designation_id='c1')c1,\
	(SELECT designation_id, sum(salary) as 'DESGN_C2' FROM emp_details WHERE designation_id='c2')c2,\
	(SELECT designation_id, sum(salary) as 'DESGN_C3' FROM emp_details WHERE designation_id='c3')c3,\
	(SELECT designation_id, sum(salary) as 'DESGN_C4' FROM emp_details WHERE designation_id='c4')c4,\
	(SELECT designation_id, sum(salary) as 'DESGN_C5' FROM emp_details WHERE designation_id='c5')c5,\
	(SELECT designation_id, sum(salary) as 'DESGN_VP' FROM emp_details WHERE designation_id='VP')vp;\
\
\
+----------------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+\
| designation_id | DESGN_C1 | DESGN_C2 | DESGN_C3 | DESGN_C4 | DESGN_VP  |\
+----------------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+\
| C4             | 85000.00 | 35000.00 | 95000.00 | 60000.00 | 100000.00 |\
| C5             | 85000.00 | 35000.00 | 95000.00 | 60000.00 | 100000.00 |\
| C1             | 85000.00 | 35000.00 | 95000.00 | 60000.00 | 100000.00 |\
| C3             | 85000.00 | 35000.00 | 95000.00 | 60000.00 | 100000.00 |\
| C2             | 85000.00 | 35000.00 | 95000.00 | 60000.00 | 100000.00 |\
| C1             | 85000.00 | 35000.00 | 95000.00 | 60000.00 | 100000.00 |\
| VP             | 85000.00 | 35000.00 | 95000.00 | 60000.00 | 100000.00 |\
| C4             | 85000.00 | 35000.00 | 95000.00 | 60000.00 | 100000.00 |\
| C2             | 85000.00 | 35000.00 | 95000.00 | 60000.00 | 100000.00 |\
| C3             | 85000.00 | 35000.00 | 95000.00 | 60000.00 | 100000.00 |\
| C5             | 85000.00 | 35000.00 | 95000.00 | 60000.00 | 100000.00 |\
| C1             | 85000.00 | 35000.00 | 95000.00 | 60000.00 | 100000.00 |\
+----------------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+\
12 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
SELECT designation_id \
(SELECT sum(salary) FROM emp_details WHERE designation_id='c1'),\
(SELECT sum(salary) FROM emp_details WHERE designation_id='c2'),\
(SELECT sum(salary) FROM emp_details WHERE designation_id='c3'),\
(SELECT sum(salary) FROM emp_details WHERE designation_id='c4'),\
(SELECT sum(salary) FROM emp_details WHERE designation_id='c5'),\
(SELECT sum(salary) FROM emp_details WHERE designation_id='VP')\
FROM emp_details e;\
\
\
\
\
WHERE c1.designation_id=c2.designation_id\
	AND c1.designation_id!=c2.designation_id\
	AND c2.designation_id!=c3.designation_id\
	AND c3.designation_id!=c4.designation_id\
	AND c4.designation_id!=c5.designation_id\
	AND c5.designation_id!=vp.designation_id;\
\
\
...to be continued...\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
20.Write a query to display employee id,first name, last name,designation name and skill name of all the employees irrespective of skills available. If no skills are available then display it as "N/A" for that particular employee. If  an employee has 2 skills then display both the records. Sort the records based on designation name in descending order.\
Hint:Use SKILL_NAME as alias name for skill name column.\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.last_name, ds.designation_name, s.skill_name\
FROM emp_details e, designation ds, skill s\
WHERE e.designation_id=ds.designation_id\
	AND e.skill_id=s.skill_id;\
+--------+------------+-----------+------------------+------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | last_name | designation_name | skill_name |\
+--------+------------+-----------+------------------+------------+\
|      3 | Rahul      | Kumar     | Senior Manager   | JAV        |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Sharma    | Senior Manager   | JAV        |\
|     12 | Ravi       | Dutta     | Senior Manager   | OOP        |\
|      5 | Mark       | Stuart    | Programmer       | OOP        |\
|      9 | Sagar      | Sharma    | Programmer       | DES        |\
|      4 | Ram        | Kumar     | Manager          | JAV        |\
|     10 | Tony       | Stark     | Manager          | TEST       |\
|      1 | Sam        | Saha      | Designer         | TEST       |\
|      8 | Ryan       | Sharma    | Designer         | JAV        |\
|      7 | Sanjay     | Mittal    | Vice President   | JAV        |\
+--------+------------+-----------+------------------+------------+\
10 rows in set (0.03 sec)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
FINAL>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, e.last_name, ds.designation_name, ifnull(s.skill_name, 'N/A') as 'SKILL_NAME'\
FROM (emp_details e LEFT OUTER JOIN skill s ON  e.skill_id=s.skill_id) LEFT OUTER JOIN designation ds ON e.designation_id=ds.designation_id\
ORDER BY ds.designation_name DESC;\
\
+--------+------------+-----------+------------------+------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | last_name | designation_name | SKILL_NAME |\
+--------+------------+-----------+------------------+------------+\
|      7 | Sanjay     | Mittal    | Vice President   | JAV        |\
|     12 | Ravi       | Dutta     | Senior Manager   | OOP        |\
|      3 | Rahul      | Kumar     | Senior Manager   | JAV        |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Sharma    | Senior Manager   | JAV        |\
|      5 | Mark       | Stuart    | Programmer       | OOP        |\
|      9 | Sagar      | Sharma    | Programmer       | DES        |\
|      4 | Ram        | Kumar     | Manager          | JAV        |\
|     10 | Tony       | Stark     | Manager          | TEST       |\
|      8 | Ryan       | Sharma    | Designer         | JAV        |\
|      1 | Sam        | Saha      | Designer         | TEST       |\
|     11 | Rahgu      | Gupta     | NULL             | JAV        |\
|      2 | John       | Gilbert   | NULL             | DES        |\
+--------+------------+-----------+------------------+------------+\
12 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
\
\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
21.Write a query to display the employee id, employee first name, designation name, supervisor id, supervisor first name and supervisor designation ID of all employees including employees who does not have supervisor and sort them by employee designation name in ascending order. \
Hint: Use "SUPERVISOR_NAME" as alias name for displaying the supervisor first name and "SUPERVISOR_DESIGNATION" as alias name for displaying the supervisor designation ID\
\
\
\
\
\
SELECT e.emp_id, e.first_name, ds.designation_name, s.emp_id, s.first_name as 'SUPERVISOR_NAME', s.designation_id as 'SUPERVISOR_DESIGNATION'\
FROM (emp_details e LEFT OUTER JOIN emp_details s ON e.supervisor_id=s.emp_id) LEFT OUTER JOIN designation ds ON e.designation_id=ds.designation_id\
ORDER BY ds.designation_name ASC;\
\
+--------+------------+------------------+--------+-----------------+------------------------+\
| emp_id | first_name | designation_name | emp_id | SUPERVISOR_NAME | SUPERVISOR_DESIGNATION |\
+--------+------------+------------------+--------+-----------------+------------------------+\
|      2 | John       | NULL             |      7 | Sanjay          | VP                     |\
|     11 | Rahgu      | NULL             |      6 | Prachi          | C1                     |\
|      8 | Ryan       | Designer         |      7 | Sanjay          | VP                     |\
|      1 | Sam        | Designer         |      3 | Rahul           | C1                     |\
|     10 | Tony       | Manager          |      4 | Ram             | C3                     |\
|      4 | Ram        | Manager          |      2 | John            | C5                     |\
|      5 | Mark       | Programmer       |      4 | Ram             | C3                     |\
|      9 | Sagar      | Programmer       |      3 | Rahul           | C1                     |\
|      3 | Rahul      | Senior Manager   |      2 | John            | C5                     |\
|     12 | Ravi       | Senior Manager   |      6 | Prachi          | C1                     |\
|      6 | Prachi     | Senior Manager   |      4 | Ram             | C3                     |\
|      7 | Sanjay     | Vice President   |   NULL | NULL            | NULL                   |\
+--------+------------+------------------+--------+-----------------+------------------------+\
12 rows in set (0.00 sec)\
\
MCQs\
\
1	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Data structure suitable for the application is discussed in ?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
data design - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
data design \
\
2	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Variation control in the context of software engineering involves controlling \
variation in the\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
3	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The data flow diagram must be augmented by descriptive text in order to \
describe the functional requirements for a software product. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
4	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
In system design, we do following\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
No hardware design needed - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Parallel hardware and software design \
\
5	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Object-oriented analysis techniques can be used to identify and refine user task \
objects and actions without any need to refer to the user voice. State True/False\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
false \
\
6	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The INNER JOIN clause\'d6\
Selected Option:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on which the 2 tables are joined. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on which the \
2 tables are joined. \
\
7	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
View can be removed using which command?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
DROP VIEW - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
DROP VIEW \
\
8	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Test Scenarios have case specific data assigned to them (State True or False)\
Selected Option:\
\
true - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
9	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The ___________ join is the ANSI-standard syntax used to generate a\
 Cartesian product.\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CROSS - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CROSS \
\
10	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1:Each table can have only ONE primary key per table\
\
Statement 2: A primary key column can contain NULL values\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
11	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Alternate flows can be tested by themselves (State Frue or false)\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
12	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Management of software development is dependent upon\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
13	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether true or false. \
Selenium tools helps to develop Automated test scripts\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
14	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software Engineering approach is used to achieve\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Quality software product - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Quality software product \
\
15	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
GROUP BY clause is used in collaboration with the SELECT\
statement to arrange identical data into groups.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
16	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the following tasks is not part of \
software configuration management?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
version control - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
statistical quality control \
\
17	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: If a subquery is not dependent on \
the outer query it is called a non-correlated subquery.\
\
Statement 2: Subqueries cannot be used with the comparison operators.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
18	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
GROUP BY - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
19	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options return all rows from the left table, \
even if there are no matches in the right table?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
LEFT JOIN - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
LEFT JOIN \
\
20	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: A FOREIGN KEY in one table points to a PRIMARY KEY \
in another table.\
\
Statement 2: If you define a CHECK constraint on a single column it\
allows only certain values for this column.\
\
Which of the given options are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
21	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
In a LIKE clause, you could ask for any value ending in "qpt" by writing\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
LIKE %qpt - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
LIKE %qpt\
\
22	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement1: Data types specify what the type of data can be \
for that particular column\
\
Statement 2: Varchar is a datatype in SQL\
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
23	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
A subquery exists only inside of the FROM clause as a run-time - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
An inline view  exists only inside of the FROM clause as a run-time result set. \
\
24	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The primary purpose of configuration status reporting is to\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
evaluate the performance of software developers and organizations - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
make sure that change information is communicated to all affected parties \
\
25	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
A defect is found after retest. What are all the possible stages this defect may\
undergo?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Reopen, Fixed, Closed - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Reopen, Fixed, Closed \
\
26	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Examine the structure of the EMPLOYEES table:\
EMPLOYEE_ID NUMBER Primary Key\
FIRST_NAME VARCHAR2(25)\
LAST_NAME VARCHAR2(25)\
HIRE_DATE DATE\
Which UPDATE statement is valid?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
UPDATE employees SET first_name = 'John', last_name ='Smith' WHERE employee_id = 180; - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
UPDATE employees\
SET first_name = 'John', last_name ='Smith'\
WHERE employee_id = 180; \
\
27	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: SQL aggregate functions return a single value, \
calculated from values in a column.\
\
Statement 2: AVG() returns the average value\
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
28	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
29	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software is a product and can be manufactured using the \
same technologies used for other engineering artifacts.  State True or False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
30	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following is not a valid aggregate function?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
COMPUTE - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
COMPUTE \
\
1	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which is not a software life cycle model\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Capability Maturity Model  - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Capability Maturity Model  \
\
2	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
A new __________ is defined when major changes have been made to one\
or more configuration objects.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
version - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
version \
\
3	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the following is the correct definition for DFD\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
The primary output of the system design phase - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
The primary output of the system design phase \
\
4	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
If Quality Control and Quality Assurance are compared\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
QC is a higher activity in the management Hierarchy - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
QC is a higher activity in the management Hierarchy \
\
5	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
What exactly Baseline means\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
A quantitative measure of the current level of performance - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
A quantitative measure of the current level of performance \
\
6	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
7	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
A SELECT command without a WHERE clause returns?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All the records from a table, or information about all the records - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All the records from a table, or information about all the records \
\
8	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following is valid SQL for an Index?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; \
\
9	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Variation control in the context of software engineering involves controlling \
variation in the\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
10	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the following comments about object oriented design\
 of software, is not true\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
an object can belong to two classes - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
an object can belong to two classes \
\
11	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We refer to a join as a self-join when?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself \
\
12	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: The SQL subquery is a SELECT query that is embedded in the\
main SELECT statement. \
\
Statement 2: A subquery cannot return more than one rows \
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
13	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Review of Test case Artifact is done with the help of?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Checklist - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Checklist \
\
14	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1:Each table can have only ONE primary key per table\
\
Statement 2: A primary key column can contain NULL values\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
None of the listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
15	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Major component of Risk Analysis are\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
The probability that the negative event will occur - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
The probability that the negative event will occur and\
The potential loss or impact associated with the event \
\
16	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: Numeric functions accept numeric input and return string values. \
\
Statement 2: Single-row functions return a single result row for every row of \
a queried table or view. \
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 2 \
\
17	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
An input field takes the birth year of the user ranging from 1960 to 1995. \
The boundary values for testing this field are?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
1959, 1960, 1961, 1994, 1995, 1996 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
1959, 1960, 1961, 1994, 1995, 1996 \
\
18	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The percent sign and the underscore cannot be used in combinations, \
when using LIKE clause.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
19	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The ___________ join is the ANSI-standard syntax used to generate a\
 Cartesian product.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CROSS - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CROSS \
\
20	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: If you want to select rows that satisfy at least one of \
the given conditions, you can use the logical operator, AND. \
\
Statement 2: <> Checks if the value of two operands are equal or not, \
if values are not equal then condition becomes true.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
None of the listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 2 \
\
21	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The SQL DROP TABLE clause is used to...\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
delete a table from the database - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
delete a table from the database \
\
22	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software Engineering is the systematic approach to the development, \
operation, maintenance and retirement of software. This definition is given by_________\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
IEEE - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
IEEE \
\
23	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which statement is used to query the database and retrieve \
selected data that match the criteria that you specify?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
SELECT - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
SELECT \
\
24	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
GROUP BY - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
25	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which is the correct order to be followed for a Build Verification Process?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
A. Build the compiled code into software B. Add the release notes \
C. Perform Smoke/ Sanity Test D. Test Execution - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
\
\
26	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False.\
Testers should be involved in reviewing documents as soon as drafts \
are available in the development cycle.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
27	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
SQL joins are used to query data from two or more tables, based on ___________________.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
a relationship between certain columns in  tables \
\
28	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
A subquery exists only inside of the FROM clause as a run-time - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
An inline view exists only inside of the FROM clause as a run-time result set. \
\
29	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
In requirements validation the requirements model is reviewed to ensure its \
technical feasibility. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
30	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE about TCL?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All listed options \
\
1	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We derive _________ by using the test design techniques\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test Scenario - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Test case \
\
2	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We refer to a join as a self-join when?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself \
\
3	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Object-oriented analysis techniques can be used to identify and refine user task \
objects and actions without any need to refer to the user voice. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
4	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following is not a valid aggregate function?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
COMPUTE - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
COMPUTE \
\
5	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Management of software development is dependent upon\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
6	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the following tasks is not part of software configuration management?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
change control - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
statistical quality control \
\
7	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. Developer has to ensure that the pre\
requisite of each test case are met.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
True - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
8	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
To produce a good quality product, process should be\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Efficient - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Efficient \
\
9	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
If table A have 10 rows and table B have 5 rows, how many rows will be\
returned if you perform a cartesian join on those two tables?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
50 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
50 \
\
10	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following SQL statements is correct?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
SELECT CustomerName, COUNT(CustomerName) FROM Orders - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
SELECT CustomerName, COUNT(CustomerName) FROM\
 Orders GROUP BY CustomerName\
\
11	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE regarding 'Constraints'?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All listed options \
\
12	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Change cannot be easily accommodated in most software systems,\
unless the system was designed with change in mind. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
13	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The INNER JOIN clause\'d6\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
returns all rows from 2 tables - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on which the\
 2 tables are joined. \
\
14	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
A table must have at least one not null constraint and one unique constraint. True or False?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
15	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
HAVING - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
16	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
In software quality assurance work there is no difference\
 between software verification and software validation. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
17	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of following is not a UML diagram used creating a system analysis \
model\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Dataflow diagram - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Activity diagram \
\
18	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following statements is/are true?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test scenario define the setup to perform the tests - 0.0\
Test scenario involves the expected results. - 0.0\
Test cases are developed from Test conditions. - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Test case includes the steps to execute. \
Test case includes the method of how the test would be performed. \
\
19	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these is a graphical notation for depicting procedural detail\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
flowchart - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
flowchart \
\
20	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
What exactly Baseline means\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
A quantitative measure of the current level of performance - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
A quantitative measure of the current level of performance \
\
21	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Test environment check up is part of _________ .\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test Execution - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Test Execution \
\
22	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
23	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Examine the structure of the EMPLOYEES table:\
EMPLOYEE_ID NUMBER Primary Key\
FIRST_NAME VARCHAR2(25)\
LAST_NAME VARCHAR2(25)\
HIRE_DATE DATE\
Which UPDATE statement is valid?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
UPDATE employees SET first_name = 'John', last_name ='Smith' WHERE employee_id = 180; - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
UPDATE employees\
SET first_name = 'John', last_name ='Smith'\
WHERE employee_id = 180; \
\
24	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE about TCL?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All listed options \
\
25	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
GROUP BY clause is used in collaboration with the SELECT statement to arrange identical data into groups.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
26	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
You cannot add a subquery to a SELECT clause as a column expression\
in the SELECT list. \
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
27	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
View can be removed using which command?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
DROP VIEW - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
DROP VIEW \
\
28	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The ROUND() function is used to round a numeric field to the nearest hundred.  \
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
29	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Milestones are used to\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Know the status of the project - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Know the status of the project \
\
30	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: The SQL subquery is a SELECT query that is embedded in the \
main SELECT statement. \
\
Statement 2: A subquery cannot return more than one rows \
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
1	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the following is the correct definition for DFD\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
The modern version of flowchart - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
The primary output of the system design phase \
\
2	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of following is not a UML diagram used creating a system analysis \
model\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Class diagram - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Activity diagram \
\
3	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
An inline view exists only inside of the WHERE clause as a run-time result set. - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
An inline view exists only inside of the FROM clause as a run-time result set. \
\
4	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The primary purpose of configuration status reporting is to\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
None of the listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
make sure that change information is communicated to all affected parties \
\
5	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False.\
Testers should be involved in reviewing documents as soon as drafts are available in the development cycle.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
6	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
WHERE - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
7	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following can add a row to a table?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Alter - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Insert \
\
8	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The INNER JOIN clause\'d6\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on which the 2 tables are joined. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on which the \
2 tables are joined. \
\
9	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: The DELETE statement is used to delete columns in a table.\
\
Statement 2: The UPDATE statement is used to update existing records in a table.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 2 \
\
10	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Process models are described as agile because they\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
do not waste development time on planning activities - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
emphasize maneuverability and adaptability \
\
11	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: A subquery is also called an inner query or inner select, while the statement containing a subquery is also called an outer query or outer select.\
\
Statement 2: A subquery can be nested inside the WHERE or HAVING clause of an outer SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statement, or inside another subquery.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
12	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which is the correct order to be followed for a Build Verification Process?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
A. Build the compiled code into software B. Add the release notes C. Perform Smoke/ Sanity Test D. Test Execution - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
\
13	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the items listed below is not one of the software engineering layers\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Tools - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Manufacturing \
\
14	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these is a graphical notation for depicting procedural detail\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
ER diagram - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
flowchart \
\
15	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: If a subquery is not dependent on the outer query it is called a non-correlated subquery.\
\
Statement 2: Subqueries cannot be used with the comparison operators.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
16	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Test data preparation data is done during _________ ?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test Execution process - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Test Development process \
\
17	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE about TCL?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All listed options \
\
18	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
A SELECT command without a WHERE clause returns?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All the records from a table, or information about all the records - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All the records from a table, or information about all the records \
\
19	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
In requirements validation the requirements model is reviewed to ensure its \
technical feasibility. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
20	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options return rows when there is at least one match in both\
 tables?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
WHERE - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
JOIN \
\
21	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
In software quality assurance work there is no difference between software\
verification and software validation. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
22	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
You can have many UNIQUE constraints per table, but only one PRIMARY KEY\
constraint per table. \
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
23	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The GROUP BY clause follows the WHERE clause in a SELECT statement and \
precedes the ORDER BY clause. \
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
24	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether true or false. QC is used for logging the outcome of the test \
execution.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
25	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these are valid software configuration items?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
26	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
27	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
A table must have at least one not null constraint and one unique constraint. \
True or False?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
28	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: Numeric functions accept numeric input and return string values. \
\
Statement 2: Single-row functions return a single result \
row for every row of a queried table or view. \
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All the listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 2 \
\
29	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We refer to a join as a self-join when?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself \
\
30	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software Engineering approach is used to achieve\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Quality software product - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Quality software product \
\
1	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Software testing ensures which of the below?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Requirement satisfaction and usage of best design architecture - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Requirement satisfaction and usage of best design architecture \
\
2	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
In system design, we do following\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Hardware design after software - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Parallel hardware and software design \
\
3	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
A new __________ is defined when major changes have been made to \
one or more configuration objects.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
version - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
version \
\
4	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
In the relational model, relationships between relations or tables are created by\
 using:\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
foreign keys. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
foreign keys. \
\
5	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which is the correct order to be followed for a Build Verification Process?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
A. Build the compiled code into software B. Add the release notes C. Perform Smoke/ Sanity Test D. Test Execution - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
\
6	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
A query is called correlated subquery when both the inner query and the outer \
query are interdependent.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
7	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
A data model consists of the following information\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
8	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which statement is used to query the database and retrieve selected data that \
match the criteria that you specify?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
SELECT - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
SELECT \
\
9	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
GROUP BY - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
10	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
A table can have more than one UNIQUE key constraint. True or False?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
11	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The goal of quality assurance is to provide management with the data needed \
to determine which software engineers are producing the most defects.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
12	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
View can be removed using which command?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
DROP VIEW - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
DROP VIEW \
\
13	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
In a LIKE clause, you could ask for any value ending in "qpt" by writing\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
LIKE %qpt - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
LIKE %qpt\
\
14	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
LIKE clause is used to compare a value to similar values using logical operators. State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
15	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following commands should be used to create a database named\
 \'ecstudent\'ee?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CREATE DATABASE student - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CREATE DATABASE student \
\
16	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE about TCL?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
TCL consists of 2 commands: COMMIT and ROLLBACK - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All listed options \
\
17	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the items listed below is not one of the software engineering layers\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Manufacturing - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Manufacturing \
\
18	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We refer to a join as a self-join when?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself \
\
19	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Informational cohesion is a realization of\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
data abstraction - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
data abstraction \
\
20	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The primary purpose of configuration status reporting is to\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
evaluate the performance of software developers and organizations - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
make sure that change information is communicated to all affected parties \
\
21	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software engineering aims at developing\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Reliable and cost effective Software - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Reliable and cost effective Software \
\
22	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1:Each table can have only ONE primary key per table\
\
Statement 2: A primary key column can contain NULL values\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
23	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The HAVING clause places conditions on the selected columns, whereas the\
 WHERE clause places conditions on groups created by the GROUP BY clause.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
24	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
If table A have 10 rows and table B have 5 rows, how many rows will be returned\
if you perform a cartesian join on those two tables?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
15 - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
50 \
\
25	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: The SQL subquery is a SELECT query that is embedded in the main\
 SELECT statement. \
\
Statement 2: A subquery cannot return more than one rows \
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
26	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We derive _________ by using the test design techniques\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test case - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Test case \
\
27	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False.\
Testers should be involved in reviewing documents as soon as drafts are available in the development cycle.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
28	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software Engineering approach is used to achieve\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Quality software product - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Quality software product \
\
29	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
30	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which one is the most important feature of spiral model\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Quality management - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Risk Management \
\
1	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Informational cohesion is a realization of\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
data abstraction - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
data abstraction \
\
2	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
What SQL clause is used to restrict the rows returned by a query?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
WHERE - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
WHERE \
\
3	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which phase is not available in s/w life cycle\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Installation & Maintenance - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Installation & Maintenance \
\
4	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
HAVING - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
5	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
You cannot add a subquery to a SELECT clause as a column expression in the SELECT list. \
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
6	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
People who perform software quality assurance must look at the software from \
the customer's perspective.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
7	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
An index helps speed up SELECT queries and WHERE clauses, but it slows \
down data input, with UPDATE and INSERT statements.  \
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
8	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software Engineering approach is used to achieve\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Quality software product - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Quality software product \
\
9	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
LIKE clause is used to compare a value to similar values using logical operators. State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
10	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
11	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement1: Data types specify what the type of data can be for that particular \
column\
\
Statement 2: Varchar is a datatype in SQL\
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
12	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
A new __________ is defined when major changes have been made to one or more configuration objects.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
version - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
version \
\
13	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
View can be removed using which command?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
DROP VIEW - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
DROP VIEW \
\
14	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which type of join combines the results of both left and right outer joins?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Full Outer Join - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Full Outer Join \
\
15	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: SQL aggregate functions return a single value, calculated from values in a column.\
\
Statement 2: AVG() returns the average value\
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
16	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Data structure suitable for the application is discussed in ?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
data design - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
data design \
\
17	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
For a given set of boundaries, how many boundary values are possible?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
6 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
6 \
\
18	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Management of software development is dependent upon\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
19	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: If you want to select rows that satisfy at least one of the given conditions, you can use the logical operator, AND. \
\
Statement 2: <> Checks if the value of two operands are equal or not, if values are not equal then condition becomes true.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 2 \
\
20	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
What is true about joining tables through an equijoin?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
You can join n tables (all having single column primary keys) in a SQL statement by specifying a minimum of n-1 join conditions. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
You can join n tables (all having single column primary keys) in a SQL statement by specifying a minimum of n-1 join conditions. \
\
21	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these is a graphical notation for depicting procedural detail\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
flowchart - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
flowchart \
\
22	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The INNER JOIN clause\'d6\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on which the 2 tables are joined. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on which the 2 tables are joined. \
\
23	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: Operators are used to specify conditions in an SQL statement\
and to serve as conjunctions for multiple conditions in a statement.\
\
Statement 2: Arithmetic operators manipulate numeric operands.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
24	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. Triage meeting is done before fixing the defect.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
25	 Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Test scenarios have to be written with the consideration of ?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Business rules - 0.333\
Non functional standards - 0.333\
Functional standards - 0.333\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Business rules \
Functional standards \
Non functional standards \
\
26	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these are valid software configuration items?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
27	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE about TCL?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All listed options \
\
28	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The data flow diagram must be augmented by descriptive text in order to \
describe the functional requirements for a software product. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
29	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The result of a SELECT statement can contain duplicate rows.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
30	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Test environment check up is part of _________ .\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test Execution - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Test Execution \
\
1	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software safety is a quality assurance activity that focuses on hazards that\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
may cause an entire system to fail - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
may cause an entire system to fail \
\
2	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: In case of Natural Joins, common columns are columns that have the same number of rows in both tables. \
\
Statement 2: JOIN ON syntax is much more readable and maintainable than the natural join syntax. \
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 2 \
\
3	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: A FOREIGN KEY in one table points to a PRIMARY KEY in another table.\
\
Statement 2: If you define a CHECK constraint on a single column it allows only certain values for this column.\
\
Which of the given options are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
4	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
In the relational model, relationships between relations or tables are created by using:\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
foreign keys. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
foreign keys. \
\
5	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
For a given set of boundaries, how many boundary values are possible?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
6 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
6 \
\
6	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We refer to a join as a self-join when?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself \
\
7	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Software testing ensures which of the below?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Requirement satisfaction and usage of best design architecture - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Requirement satisfaction and usage of best design architecture \
\
8	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The incremental model of software development is\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
A good approach when a working core product is required quickly - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
A good approach when a working core product is required quickly \
\
9	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
What is configuration management in software engineering\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
the identification of the configuration of a system at discrete points in time to control changes to the configuration - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
the identification of the configuration of a system at discrete points in time to \
control changes to the configuration \
\
10	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
GROUP BY clause is used in collaboration with the SELECT statement to arrange identical data into groups.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
11	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these criteria are useful in assessing the effectiveness of a particular \
design notation\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
maintainability, simplicity and modularity - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
maintainability, simplicity and modularity \
\
12	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
ANSI is the official U.S. representative to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). State whether the above statement is true or false\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
13	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following is valid SQL for an Index?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; \
\
14	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
To produce a good quality product, process should be\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Efficient - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Efficient \
\
15	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which is not the responsibility of customer/ user of the software\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Prepare resource plan - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Prepare resource plan \
\
16	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The percent sign and the underscore cannot be used in combinations, when \
using LIKE clause.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
17	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The best way to conduct a requirements validation review is to\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
use a checklist of questions to examine each requirement - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
use a checklist of questions to examine each requirement \
\
18	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which is not a major task of test implementation and execution?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Checking test logs against the exit criteria specified in test planning - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Checking test logs against the exit criteria specified in test planning \
\
19	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
View can be removed using which command?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
DROP VIEW - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
DROP VIEW \
\
20	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which statement is used to query the database and retrieve selected data that match the criteria that you specify?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
SELECT - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
SELECT \
\
21	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which two are true about aggregate functions?(Choose two)\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
You can mix single row columns with aggregate functions in the column list of\
a SELECT statement by grouping on the single row columns. - 0.5\
You can pass column names, expressions, constants, or functions as \
parameters to an aggregate function. - 0.5\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
You can pass column names, expressions, constants, or functions as parameters\
to anaggregate function. \
You can mix single row columns with aggregate functions in the column list \
of a SELECT statement by grouping on the single row columns. \
\
22	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
What SQL clause is used to restrict the rows returned by a query?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
WHERE - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
WHERE \
\
23	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following statements is/are true?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test case includes the method of how the test would be performed. - 0.5\
Test case includes the steps to execute. - 0.5\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
Test case includes the steps to execute. \
Test case includes the method of how the test would be performed. \
\
24	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Object-oriented analysis techniques can be used to identify and refine user task \
objects and actions without any need to refer to the user voice. State True/False\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
\
\
25	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
An index helps speed up SELECT queries and WHERE clauses, but it slows\
down data input, with UPDATE and INSERT statements.  \
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
26	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Milestones are used to\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Know the status of the project - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Know the status of the project \
\
27	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: 'AND' Returns TRUE if both component conditions are TRUE.\
 Returns FALSE if either is FALSE; otherwise returns UNKNOWN. \
\
Statement 2: 'EXISTS' returns FALSE if a sub-query returns at least one row. \
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
28	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
29	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
Selected Option:\
\
\
HAVING - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
30	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
When software configuration management is a formal activity, \
the software configuration audit is conducted by the\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
quality assurance group - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
quality assurance group \
\
1	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We derive _________ by using the test design techniques\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test case - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Test case \
\
2	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Milestones are used to\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Know the status of the project - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Know the status of the project \
\
3	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE regarding 'Constraints'?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All listed options \
\
4	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
What is the purpose of the SQL AS clause?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
The AS SQL clause is used to change the name of a column in the result set or to assign a name to a derived column. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
The AS SQL clause is used to change the name of a column in \
the result set or to assign a name to a derived column. \
\
5	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
6	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
In requirements validation the requirements model is reviewed to ensure its \
technical feasibility. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
7	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software safety is a quality assurance activity that focuses on hazards that\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
affect the reliability of a software component - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
may cause an entire system to fail \
\
8	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The term module in the design phase refers to\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
9	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
To produce a good quality product, process should be\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Efficient - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Efficient \
\
10	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these criteria are useful in assessing the effectiveness of a particular \
design notation\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
maintainability, simplicity and modularity - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
maintainability, simplicity and modularity \
\
11	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. Triage meeting is done before fixing the defect.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
12	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE about TCL?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All listed options \
\
13	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
GROUP BY clause is used in collaboration with the SELECT statement to arrange identical data into groups.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
14	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We refer to a join as a self-join when?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself \
\
15	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: 'AND' Returns TRUE if both component conditions are TRUE. Returns FALSE if either is FALSE; otherwise returns UNKNOWN. \
\
Statement 2: 'EXISTS' returns FALSE if a sub-query returns at least one row. \
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
16	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which syntax would be used to retrieve all rows in both the EMPLOYEES and \
DEPARTMENTS tables, even when there is no match?\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Outer join - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Outer join \
\
17	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
A basic configuration object is a __________ created by a software engineer\
during some phase of the software development process.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
a software component \
\
18	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The data flow diagram must be augmented by descriptive text in order to \
describe the functional requirements for a software product. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
19	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following map the corresponding phases from SDLC with STLC.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Requirement Analysis - Test Planning Design and Code - Test Design Testing - Component Integration testing and System testing - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Requirement Analysis - Test Planning\
\
Design and Code - Test Design\
\
Testing - Component Integration testing and System testing \
\
20	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
A query is called correlated subquery when both the inner query and the outer query are interdependent.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
21	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the following tasks is not part of software configuration management?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
statistical quality control - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
statistical quality control \
\
22	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The INNER JOIN clause\'d6\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on which the 2 tables are joined. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on which the\
 2 tables are joined. \
\
23	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: The SQL subquery is a SELECT query that is embedded in\
the main SELECT statement. \
Statement 2: A subquery cannot return more than one rows \
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
24	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
ON UPDATE CASCADE ensures which of the following?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
data Integrity - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
data Integrity \
\
25	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following is valid SQL for an Index?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; \
\
26	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Change cannot be easily accommodated in most software systems,\
unless the system was designed with change in mind. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
27	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The ROUND() function is used to round a numeric field to the nearest hundred.  \
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
28	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Test data preparation data is done during _________ ?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test Execution process - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Test Development process \
\
29	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following can add a row to a table?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Insert - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Insert \
\
30	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
HAVING - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
1	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement1: Data types specify what the type of data can be for that particular \
column\
Statement 2: Varchar is a datatype in SQL\
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
2	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which syntax would be used to retrieve all rows in both the EMPLOYEES and \
DEPARTMENTS tables, even when there is no match?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Outer join - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Outer join \
\
3	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following statements is/are true?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test case includes the steps to execute. - 0.5\
Test case includes the method of how the test would be performed. - 0.5\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Test case includes the steps to execute. \
Test case includes the method of how the test would be performed. \
\
4	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
An input field takes the birth year of the user ranging from 1960 to 1995. The boundary values for testing this field are?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
1959, 1960, 1961, 1994, 1995, 1996 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
1959, 1960, 1961, 1994, 1995, 1996 \
\
5	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Informational cohesion is a realization of\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
data abstraction - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
data abstraction \
\
6	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the following tasks is not part of software configuration management?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
statistical quality control - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
statistical quality control \
\
7	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Project risk factor is considered in\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Spiral - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Spiral \
\
8	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The ROUND() function is used to round a numeric field to the nearest hundred.  \
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
9	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
In the relational model, relationships between relations or tables \
are created by using:\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
foreign keys. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
foreign keys. \
\
10	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
11	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
In causal analysis which attributes among below assist in analyzing the effect?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Cause - 0.5\
Reason - 0.5\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Cause \
Reason \
\
12	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The incremental model of software development is\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
A good approach when a working core product is required quickly - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
A good approach when a working core product is required quickly \
\
13	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
If Quality Control and Quality Assurance are compared\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
QC is a higher activity in the management Hierarchy - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
QC is a higher activity in the management Hierarchy \
\
14	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following SQL statements is correct?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
SELECT CustomerName, COUNT(CustomerName) FROM Orders \
GROUP BY CustomerName - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
SELECT CustomerName, COUNT(CustomerName) FROM Orders GROUP\
 BY CustomerName\
\
15	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
A new __________ is defined when major changes have been made to one or more configuration objects.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
version - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
version \
\
16	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
A table can have more than one UNIQUE key constraint. True or False?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
17	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
A query is called correlated subquery when both the inner query and the outer query are interdependent.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
18	 Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options is TRUE about LIKE clause?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both the statements given - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both  the statements given \
\
19	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Examine the structure of the EMPLOYEES table:\
EMPLOYEE_ID NUMBER Primary Key\
FIRST_NAME VARCHAR2(25)\
LAST_NAME VARCHAR2(25)\
HIRE_DATE DATE\
Which UPDATE statement is valid?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
UPDATE employees SET first_name = 'John', last_name ='Smith' WHERE employee_id = 180; - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
UPDATE employees\
SET first_name = 'John', last_name ='Smith'\
WHERE employee_id = 180; \
\
20	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which is not the responsibility of customer/ user of the software\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Prepare resource plan - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Prepare resource plan \
\
21	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE regarding 'Constraints'?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All listed options \
\
22	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software Engineering approach is used to achieve\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Quality software product - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Quality software product \
\
23	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Variation control in the context of software engineering involves controlling \
variation in the\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
24	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Object-oriented analysis techniques can be used to identify and refine user task \
objects and actions without any need to refer to the user voice. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
25	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
SQL can be used to:\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All the listed operation can be done by SQL. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All the listed operation can be done by SQL. \
\
26	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
You cannot add a subquery to a SELECT clause as a column expression in the SELECT list. \
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
27	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: If a subquery is not dependent on the outer query it is called a non-correlated subquery.\
\
Statement 2: Subqueries cannot be used with the comparison operators.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
28	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The INNER JOIN clause\'d6\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on which the 2 tables are joined. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on which the 2 tables are joined. \
\
29	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which is not a major task of test implementation and execution?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Checking test logs against the exit criteria specified in test planning - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Checking test logs against the exit criteria specified in test planning \
\
30	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
HAVING - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
1	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
What exactly Baseline means\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
None of the listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
A quantitative measure of the current level of performance \
\
2	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The percent sign and the underscore cannot be used in combinations, when using LIKE clause.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
3	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: SQL aggregate functions return a single value, calculated from values in a column.\
\
Statement 2: AVG() returns the average value\
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
4	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: If a subquery is not dependent on the outer query it is called a non-correlated subquery.\
\
Statement 2: Subqueries cannot be used with the comparison operators.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
None of the listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
5	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The ___________ join is the ANSI-standard syntax used to generate a Cartesian product.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CROSS - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CROSS \
\
6	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Test data preparation data is done during _________ ?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test condition defining process - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Test Development process \
\
7	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Primary Key does allow the Null Values. where as in\
Unique key doesn't accept the Null values.\
State whether the statement is true or false\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
8	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software Engineering approach is used to achieve\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Quality software product - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Quality software product \
\
9	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: A subquery is also called an inner query or inner select, while the statement containing a subquery is also called an outer query or outer select.\
\
Statement 2: A subquery can be nested inside the WHERE or HAVING clause of an outer SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statement, or inside another subquery.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
10	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
If requirements are frequently changing, which model is best suited\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Spiral - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Prototype \
\
11	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
WHERE - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
HAVING \
\
12	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
You cannot add a subquery to a SELECT clause as a column expression in the\
 SELECT list. \
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
13	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
A defect is found after retest. What are all the possible stages this defect may undergo?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Reopen, Fixed, Closed - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Reopen, Fixed, Closed \
\
14	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these is a graphical notation for depicting procedural detail\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
process diagram - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
flowchart \
\
15	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE about TCL?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All listed options \
\
16	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Project risk factor is considered in\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Spiral \
\
17	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The goal of quality assurance is to provide management with the data needed\
to determine which software engineers are producing the most defects.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
18	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following commands should be used to create a database named\
 \'ecstudent\'ee?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CREATE DATABASE student - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CREATE DATABASE student \
\
19	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The result of a SELECT statement can contain duplicate rows.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
20	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The work products produced during requirement elicitation will vary\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
software process being used - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
size of the product being built \
\
21	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
ANSI is the official U.S. representative to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). State whether the above statement is true or false\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
22	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The object relationship pair of data model is represented graphically by using\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Entity relationship diagram \
\
23	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The Prototype is a\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Working model of existing system - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Working model of existing system \
\
24	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
For a given set of boundaries, how many boundary values are possible?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
6 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
6 \
\
25	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We refer to a join as a self-join when?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself \
\
26	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
If table A have 10 rows and table B have 5 rows, how many rows will be returned if you perform a cartesian join on those two tables?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
50 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
50 \
\
27	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following map the corresponding phases from SDLC with STLC.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Requirement Analysis - Test Planning Design and Code - Test Design Testing - Unit Testing - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Requirement Analysis - Test Planning\
\
Design and Code - Test Design\
\
Testing - Component Integration testing and System testing \
\
28	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The main reason that constraints are added to a table is:\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Constraints ensure data integrity - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Constraints ensure data integrity \
\
29	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
What is configuration management in software engineering\
Selected Option:\
\
\
the identification of the configuration of a system at discrete points in time to control changes to the configuration - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
the identification of the configuration of a system at discrete points\
 in time to control changes to the configuration \
\
30	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
1	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
What are the possible causes for ending up into 0.1 % defective application?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Defective code - 0.25\
Misunderstood requirements - 0.25\
Less knowledge on development language - 0.0\
Developers tend to neglect test approach to the developed product. - 0.25\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Developers tend to neglect test approach to the developed product. \
Defective code \
Lack of domain knowledge \
Misunderstood requirements \
\
2	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
What is true about joining tables through an equijoin?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
You can join n tables (all having single column primary keys) in a SQL \
statement by specifying a minimum of n-1 join conditions. \
\
3	 Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options is TRUE about LIKE clause?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both the statements given - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both  the statements given \
\
4	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We derive _________ by using the test design techniques\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test case - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Test case \
\
5	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
A data model consists of the following information\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
6	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
7	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
HAVING - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
8	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
DDL part of SQL does which of the following?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All listed options \
\
9	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following statements is/are true?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Test case includes the steps to execute. - 0.5\
Test scenario define the setup to perform the tests - 0.0\
Test cases are developed from Test conditions. - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Test case includes the steps to execute. \
Test case includes the method of how the test would be performed. \
\
10	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The best way to conduct a requirements validation review is to\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
use a checklist of questions to examine each requirement - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
use a checklist of questions to examine each requirement \
\
11	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1:Each table can have only ONE primary key per table\
\
Statement 2: A primary key column can contain NULL values\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
12	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these criteria are useful in assessing the effectiveness of a particular \
design notation\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
maintainability, simplicity and modularity - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
maintainability, simplicity and modularity \
\
13	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
An index helps speed up SELECT queries and WHERE clauses,\
but it slows down data input, with UPDATE and INSERT statements.  \
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
14	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
When software configuration management is a formal activity, \
the software configuration audit is conducted by the\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
quality assurance group - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
quality assurance group \
\
15	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The conditions that need to be verified by the tester after \
the activity is performed are called _________?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Post condition - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Post condition \
\
16	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The percent sign and the underscore cannot be used in combinations, \
when using LIKE clause.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
17	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which two statements are true regarding the ORDER BY clause? (Choose two)\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
The ORDER BY clause comes last in the SELECT statement. - 0.5\
The sort is in ascending order by default. - 0.5\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
The sort is in ascending order by default. \
The ORDER BY clause comes last in the SELECT statement. \
\
18	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which type of join combines the results of both left and right outer joins?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Full Outer Join - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Full Outer Join \
\
19	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these are valid software configuration items?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
software tools - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
20	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: A subquery is also called an inner query or inner select, \
while the statement containing a subquery is also called an outer \
query or outer select.\
\
Statement 2: A subquery can be nested inside the WHERE or HAVING \
clause of an outer SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statement,\
or inside another subquery.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
21	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Management of software development is dependent upon\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
22	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The INNER JOIN clause\'d6\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on \
which the 2 tables are joined. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
returns all rows that have matching value in the field on which\
the 2 tables are joined. \
\
23	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following is valid SQL for an Index?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; \
\
24	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software Engineering approach is used to achieve\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Quality software product - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Quality software product \
\
25	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software processes can be constructed out of pre-existing \
software patterns to best meet the needs of a software project.  \
State True or False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
26	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which statement is used to query the database and retrieve select\
data that match the criteria that you specify?\
\
\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
SELECT \
\
27	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software safety is a quality assurance activity that focuses on hazards that\
\
\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
may cause an entire system to fail \
\
28	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which two are true about aggregate functions?(Choose two)\
\
\
Correct Answer:\
You can pass column names, expressions, constants, or functions \
as parameters to anaggregate function. \
You can mix single row columns with aggregate functions in\
 the column list of a SELECT\
statement by grouping on the single row columns. \
\
29	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these is a graphical notation for depicting procedural detail\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
flowchart - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
flowchart \
\
30	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which operator returns all distinct rows selected by \
the first query but not the second?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
MINUS - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
MINUS \
\
1	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: If a subquery is not dependent on the outer query it is called a non-correlated subquery.\
\
Statement 2: Subqueries cannot be used with the comparison operators.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
2	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
SQL joins are used to query data from two or more tables, \
based on ___________________.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
a relationship between certain columns in tables - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
a relationship between certain columns in  tables \
\
3	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
ON UPDATE CASCADE ensures which of the following?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Normalization - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
data Integrity \
\
4	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software Engineering approach is used to achieve\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Quality software product - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Quality software product \
\
5	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The primary purpose of configuration status reporting is to\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
allow revision of project schedules and cost estimates by project managers - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
make sure that change information is communicated to all affected parties \
\
6	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
An input field takes the birth year of the user ranging from 1960 to 1995. The boundary values for testing this field are?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
1959, 1960, 1961, 1994, 1995, 1996 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
1959, 1960, 1961, 1994, 1995, 1996 \
\
7	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Alternate flows can be tested by themselves (State Frue or false)\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
8	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
GROUP BY - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
9	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Object-oriented analysis techniques can be used to identify and refine user task \
objects and actions without any need to refer to the user voice. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
10	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: Numeric functions accept numeric input and return string values. \
\
Statement 2: Single-row functions return a single result row for every row of a queried table or view. \
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 2 \
\
11	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
What are the qualities of a good s/w\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
12	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following is valid SQL for an Index?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; \
\
13	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the items listed below is not one of the software engineering layers\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Manufacturing - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Manufacturing \
\
14	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following can add a row to a table?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Insert - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Insert \
\
15	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which one is the most important feature of spiral model\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Risk Management - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Risk Management \
\
16	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
What is a primary key?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
The primary key is a column or combination of columns whose values uniquely identify each row in the table. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
The primary key is a column or combination of columns whose values uniquely identify each row in the table. \
\
17	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
DDL part of SQL does which of the following?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All listed options \
\
18	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
19	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: 'UNION' returns all distinct rows selected by either query.\
\
Statement 2: 'INTERSECT 'returns all distinct rows selected by both queries. \
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
20	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
In system design, we do following\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Parallel hardware and software design - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Parallel hardware and software design \
\
21	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether true or false. Selenium tools helps to develop Automated test scripts\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
22	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following is not a valid aggregate function?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
COMPUTE - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
COMPUTE \
\
23	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The HAVING clause places conditions on the selected columns, whereas the WHERE clause places conditions on groups created by the GROUP BY clause.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
24	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Control flow diagrams are\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
useful for modeling real-time systems and event driven systems - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
useful for modeling real-time systems. \
\
25	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
What exactly Baseline means\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
A test or analysis conducted after an application is moved into production - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
A quantitative measure of the current level of performance \
\
26	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We refer to a join as a self-join when?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself \
\
27	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software engineering aims at developing\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Reliable and cost effective Software - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Reliable and cost effective Software \
\
28	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
A subquery exists only inside of the FROM clause as a run-time - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
An inline view  exists only inside of the FROM clause as a run-time result set. \
\
29	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The ___________ join is the ANSI-standard syntax used to generate a Cartesian product.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CROSS - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CROSS \
\
30	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
What are the subsequent states that a new defect can undergo?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Deferred - 0.333\
Rejected - 0.333\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Rejected \
Deferred \
Open \
\
1	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
To remove duplicate rows from the result set of a SELECT use the following keyword:\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
DISTINCT - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
DISTINCT \
\
2	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software engineering aims at developing\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Reliable and cost effective Software - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Reliable and cost effective Software \
\
3	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: 'UNION' returns all distinct rows selected by either query.\
\
Statement 2: 'INTERSECT 'returns all distinct rows selected by both queries. \
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
None of the listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
4	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Change cannot be easily accommodated in most software systems, unless the system was designed with change in mind. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
5	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Major component of Risk Analysis are\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
The probability that the negative event will occur and The potential loss or impact associated with the event - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
The probability that the negative event will occur and The potential loss or impact associated with the event \
\
6	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which is not a major task of test implementation and execution?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Checking test logs against the exit criteria specified in test planning - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Checking test logs against the exit criteria specified in test planning \
\
7	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
We refer to a join as a self-join when?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
we are joining table to itself \
\
8	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these criteria are useful in assessing the effectiveness of a particular \
design notation\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
modularity - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
maintainability, simplicity and modularity \
\
9	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
LIKE clause is used to compare a value to similar values using logical operators. State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
10	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
For a given set of boundaries, how many boundary values are possible?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
6 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
6 \
\
11	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
If requirements are frequently changing, which model is best suited\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Prototype - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Prototype \
\
12	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
An index helps speed up SELECT queries and WHERE clauses, but it slows down data input, with UPDATE and INSERT statements.  \
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
13	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
You cannot add a subquery to a SELECT clause as a column expression in the SELECT list. \
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
14	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the statements is applicable to software testing?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Helps prevent the defects - 0.25\
Helps in identifying defects - 0.25\
Helps to provide a reliable system - 0.25\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Helps to provide a reliable system \
Helps prevent the defects \
Helps to identify completeness of the software \
Helps in identifying defects \
\
15	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The goal of quality assurance is to provide management with the data needed to determine which software engineers are producing the most defects.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
16	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
A new __________ is defined when major changes have been made to one or more configuration objects.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
version - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
version \
\
17	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Test Scenarios have case specific data assigned to them (State True or False)\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
18	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
A Self Join is a type of sql join which is used to join a table to itself, particularly when the table has a FOREIGN KEY that references its own PRIMARY KEY. \
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
19	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
20	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement1: Data types specify what the type of data can be for that particular column\
\
Statement 2: Varchar is a datatype in SQL\
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both statement 1 and statement 2 \
\
21	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
The percent sign and the underscore cannot be used in combinations, when using LIKE clause.\
\
State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
22	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
A basic configuration object is a __________ created by a software engineer during some phase of the software development process.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
a software component \
\
23	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
HAVING - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
24	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
ON UPDATE CASCADE ensures which of the following?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Materialized View - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
data Integrity \
\
25	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which two are true about aggregate functions?(Choose two)\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
You can use aggregate functions only in the column list of the SELECT clause and in the WHERE clause of a SELECT statement. - 0.0\
You can mix single row columns with aggregate functions in the column list of a SELECT statement by grouping on the single row columns. - 0.5\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
You can pass column names, expressions, constants, or functions as parameters to an\
aggregate function. \
You can mix single row columns with aggregate functions in the column list of a SELECT\
statement by grouping on the single row columns. \
\
26	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the following is the correct definition for DFD\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
The modern version of flowchart - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
The primary output of the system design phase \
\
27	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
In the relational model, relationships between relations or tables are created by using:\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
foreign keys. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
foreign keys. \
\
28	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
To automatically delete rows in a child table when a parent record is deleted use:\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
ON DELETE CASCADE - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
ON DELETE CASCADE \
\
29	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
If Quality Control and Quality Assurance are compared\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
QC is a higher activity in the management Hierarchy - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
QC is a higher activity in the management Hierarchy \
\
30	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following is valid SQL for an Index?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CHANGE INDEX ID; - 0.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; \
\
1	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which clause should you use to exclude group results?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
HAVING - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
HAVING \
\
2	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether True or False. \
A use case can result into more than one scenario.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
3	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Examine the structure of the EMPLOYEES table:\
EMPLOYEE_ID NUMBER Primary Key\
FIRST_NAME VARCHAR2(25)\
LAST_NAME VARCHAR2(25)\
HIRE_DATE DATE\
Which UPDATE statement is valid?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
UPDATE employees SET first_name = 'John', last_name ='Smith' WHERE employee_id = 180; - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
UPDATE employees\
SET first_name = 'John', last_name ='Smith'\
WHERE employee_id = 180; \
\
4	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Management of software development is dependent upon\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
5	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
SQL can be used to:\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All the listed operation can be done by SQL. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All the listed operation can be done by SQL. \
\
6	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
State whether true or false. Selenium tools helps to develop Automated test scripts\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
7	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of these are valid software configuration items?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
All of the listed options - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
All of the listed options \
\
8	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Alternate flows can be tested by themselves (State Frue or false)\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
9	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the following is the correct definition for DFD\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
The primary output of the system design phase - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
The primary output of the system design phase \
\
10	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the following is valid SQL for an Index?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
CREATE INDEX ID; \
\
11	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The data flow diagram must be augmented by descriptive text in order to \
describe the functional requirements for a software product. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
12	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Which of the items listed below is not one of the software engineering layers\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Manufacturing - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Manufacturing \
\
13	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
In the relational model, relationships between relations or tables are created by using:\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
foreign keys. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
foreign keys. \
\
14	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
Software processes can be constructed out of pre-existing software patterns to best meet the needs of a software project.  State True or False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
true - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
true \
\
15	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
In software quality assurance work there is no difference between software verification and software validation. State True/False\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
16	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: The SQL subquery is a SELECT query that is embedded in the main SELECT statement. \
\
Statement 2: A subquery cannot return more than one rows \
\
Which of the above statements is TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 1 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 1 \
\
17	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
LIKE clause is used to compare a value to similar values using logical operators. State whether the above statement is TRUE or FALSE.\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
false - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
false \
\
18	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
The Prototype is a\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Working model of existing system - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Working model of existing system \
\
19	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: If you want to select rows that satisfy at least one of the given conditions, you can use the logical operator, AND. \
\
Statement 2: <> Checks if the value of two operands are equal or not, if values are not equal then condition becomes true.\
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 2 \
\
20	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
What are the subsequent states that a new defect can undergo?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Open - 0.333\
Fixed - 0.0\
Deferred - 0.333\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Rejected \
Deferred \
Open \
\
21	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which statement is used to query the database and retrieve selected data that match the criteria that you specify?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
SELECT - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
SELECT \
\
22	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Statement 1: In case of Natural Joins, common columns are columns that have the same number of rows in both tables. \
\
Statement 2: JOIN ON syntax is much more readable and maintainable than the natural join syntax. \
\
Which of the above statements are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Only statement 2 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Only statement 2 \
\
23	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
In system design, we do following\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Parallel hardware and software design - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Parallel hardware and software design \
\
24	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
For a given set of boundaries, how many boundary values are possible?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
6 - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
6 \
\
25	 Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options is TRUE about LIKE clause?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
Both the statements given - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
Both  the statements given \
\
26	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
What is a primary key?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
The primary key is a column or combination of columns whose values uniquely identify each row in the table. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
The primary key is a column or combination of columns whose values uniquely identify each row in the table. \
\
27	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
Which of the given options are TRUE?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
An inline view exists only inside of the FROM clause as a run-time result set. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
An inline view  exists only inside of the FROM clause as a run-time result set. \
\
28	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
To remove duplicate rows from the result set of a SELECT use the following keyword:\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
DISTINCT - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
DISTINCT \
\
29	Carefully read the question and answer accordingly.\
What exactly Baseline means\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
A quantitative measure of the current level of performance - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
A quantitative measure of the current level of performance \
\
30	Please read the question carefully and choose the most appropriate option.\
What is true about joining tables through an equijoin?\
\
\
Selected Option:\
\
\
You can join n tables (all having single column primary keys) in a \
SQL statement by specifying a minimum of n-1 join conditions. - 1.0\
\
Correct Answer:\
\
\
You can join n tables (all having single column primary keys) \
in a SQL statement by specifying a minimum of n-1 join conditions. \
\
\
  \
 \
\
}